From: marco99
Full-Name:  
X-Status: New


Au, Ag, Mo, Ur, Zn, Cu, Pb. Welcome to issue 88, the specialATI 8088
issue.Zinc, Copper, Lead, and Gold. That's the primary elements Exxon is
after at Crandon minesite in northern Wisconsin.Gold, Silver, Molybdenum
and Uranium. Would be the secondary elements they will be raping the
earth for.Side issues? Oh, nickel, iron, thorium, stuff like that.Where
did I get my information? Piss off, I'm a journalist. Fact is that's what
I know. How I know it isn't nearly as important what can't continue on if
everyone knows it, so tell friends.Don't let them tell you crandon's just
a copper mine. OK, here's the pap #'s run for Sunday, August 3, 1997.
Louis Farrakhan4855 W. Woodlawn Ave.Chicago, Ill. 60615Fred Rogers4802
5th Ave.Pittsburgh, PA
15213http://www.fatcitynews.comhttp://www.geocities.com/sunsetstrip/8764OBIT.
William S. Burroughs is dead. And so is FW Woolworth. So now you can no
longer get a  naked lunch at the counter.A review of 5 newsgroups by
Prime Anarchist.Here's what Klanwatch has to say about these 5 groups.
Read on for what I say.misc.activism.militia. Discussion about
paramilitary groups.alt.conspiracy. The latest theories of the paranoid
right.alt.sovergnty. "freemen" declare their independence from the
government.talk.politics.guns. Second Amendment rhetoric laved with
advice on weapons.alt.survivalism. Going off the grid? Here's how.I say
this:spam, spam and more spam.Nothing but spam. Every one of these groups
were just riddled with spam. Who kkknows what's in those usenets.Prime
says, if you MUST do newsgroups,try alt.society.atiWhen I published my
guide to the unabomber, I got one copy back with some quite unusual
feedback. Magic markerall over it. Here's the content:Anti Love PoemLove
don't put food on the table.And Romeo's just a faggot in
disguise.WWIIRoses are redViolets are blueYou did a good jobIn world war
IIMy Mom - Stan JohnsonI have a momUh- oh here she comes.A picture of a
triple barrel shotgun.(keep in mind these are in big fat magic marker
over each page of my pamphlet.)WWIRoses are redflowers r funYou did a
good jobIn world war IVietnam Look out for the bulletWatch out for the
bombYour best friend diedIn vietnam.Purple stainedCotton candy facesDance
about in the sunshine...here I go again.I've been to a million
placesTongued my lipsand read my mind.Mr. Potato HeadHi everybodyKids
play with meMy eye fell out.Ode to ShopkoBoxes and boxesAnd guys with no
teethRoger smells justLike shit.Love - by KHARNEKill! Maim! Burn!Kill!
Maim! Burn!Kill! Maim! Burn!Kill! Maim! Burn!Blood for the blood
god!LoveyTastes so muchBetter with A-1 steak sauce...Great, now I get to
feel like I've inspired some psychos.Nice to get feedback now and then.
Even if it does border on, doggeral? Hmmm. Some of it was kind ofpoetic,
eh? How about Mr. Potatoe Head's eye falling out? Hmmm. OK.I'll leave you
with journal poem 16. Cloudwalker's in Cripple Creek Co.I sit in Manitou
eatingAustralian Hoki fish.Permanentate is a verb.Hey cullinder-brain, I
sayA toasted bagel and creamCheese is just not completeWithout sprouts
and tomatoes. Wrist burns on motor scooter:Were not for wearing
watch;Would've been way worse.And the gasoline was green;It's usually
blue out here.You notice these things.Clam cakes will get worseAnd worse
the wester you get>From Connecticut.Weather: Loaf-&-JugSticky bun: 69c
Cold,Wet, raining, pelting.So real wet. Hurry gotta Make it to the shower
toBeat those pneumonia blues.Snobbish canadians in Stonington,Salesman
convalescing in Saybrook;Swedes congested in sarcasm. AndSeaweed
collecting by sewer-systems.Well that's it for ATI 88. A tiny one.See you
next week.As per usual address all correspondence to marco99@juno.comTo
sign up for the listserv sendSUBSCRIBE ATIto:Listserv@brazerko.comand to
join in on the discussion call the reactivatedalt.society.atiusenet
newsgroup.-30-
