                           ษออออออออออออออออออออออป
                           บ     The Connector    บ
                           บ                      บ
                           บ The Voice of Freedom บ
                           บ                      บ
                           บ    May 1992 Issue    บ
                           ศออออออออออออออออออออออผ

                                   Contents
                                   ฿฿฿฿฿฿฿฿
 1. United Nation's Loyalty Oath
 2. World Federalist Association Oath
 3. The Era of Totalitarianism Now Begins
 4. How To Turn "Asset Forfeiture" Into Government's Worst Nightmare
 5. Real Estate Litigation Notice: "Handicapped & Elderly vs. DEA"


                       ษออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                       บ              I.              บ
                       บ United Nation's Loyalty Oath บ
                       ศออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

                "I solemnly affirm to exercise in all loyalty,
                discretion and conscience the functions
                entrusted to me as a member of the
                international service of the United Nations,
                to discharge those functions and regulate my
                conduct with the interest of the United
                Nations only in view, and not to seek or
                accept instructions in respect to the
                performance of my duties from any
                government or other authority external to
                the organization."


                       ษออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                       บ              II.             บ
                       บ World Federalist Association บ
                       ศออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

                   "We the People of the World, in order to
                   form a more perfect Union, establish
                   Justice, ensure Planetary Tranquility,
                   provide for Global Security, promote the
                   general Welfare, and secure the blessings of
                   Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do
                   ordain and establish this Constitution for the
                   Federation of the Planet Earth."


                   ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                   บ                 III.                  บ
                   บ The Era of Totalitarianism Now Begins บ
                   ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

     Our title for this article may not seem appropriate for those who still
believe that America is still the land of the free and the home of the brave.
However, every act of our government bears witness that "totalitarianism" has
sunk its roots deep into American Soil and is here to stay unless it can be
uprooted, dislodged and exported by those now dedicated to that task, namely,
America's patriots.

     The last national barrier and the most difficult to overcome for the
forces of totalitarianism has now been breached and there is no other in sight
to slow its progress.  That barrier was the Bicentennial of the Bill of rights
which was December 15 of 1991.  For a decade it kept totalitarianism in check
and slowed to a steady crawl.  With the Bicentennial BEHIND US the only
obstacle left to overcome if the Freedom Movement itself and the individual
patriot which makes it up.  Once the patriot is put down, totalitarianism can
run free with nothing to impede its progress in the foreseeable future.  The
presidential elections will rein it in for yet a short period just for the
show, but after that it's full speed ahead towards the New World Order and woe
be to those who dare to oppose it.

     The first order of business from this point forward will be to VILIFY THE
AMERICAN PATRIOT.  To do this with public acceptance, the patriot is scheduled
for a name change.  Anyone who stands up for the U.s. Constitution, Bill of
rights, American nationalism, America first, will be labeled as a racist, a
dissident, a rebel or a terrorist.  Nationalism will become a term and a
concept to be shunned and ridiculed and is to be replaced with the concept of
"multiculturalism" which is to become "politically correct" or else.

     The U.N. loyalty oath and the World Federalist tenet shown above should
give you some idea, in advance, of the "goals" of the government for the rest
of this decade.  The American government has ceased to "serve", now it
"rules", and "management" of the American people IS ITS ONLY CONCERN.
Management and liberty cannot remain bedfellows for long, for one stifles the
other and great frictions are bound to result, for liberty was never meant to
be chained.  Some nations and cultures take to the leash more readily than
others, but our history shows that any attempt to place a shackle around the
neck of an American patriot is a very risky undertaking with a very small
record of success.  However, there is a cure for that and it is called
"legislation."

     Last year the Congress proposed a get tough on crime bill, but it didn't
get passed.  Remember, that was the Bicentennial year with the Bill of Rights
on everybody's mind.  NOW WE HAVE LOST THAT PROTECTION.

     This year some very ominous "legislation" is being proposed to deal with
the patriot "problem".  The patriot relies heavily on his First Amendment
rights so that is where this legislation is designed to strike.  Though this
legislation is couched in very ambiguous terms and directed at "terrorist"
activities - to make it publicly acceptable - ITS INTENT IS TO SUPPRESS
FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND THE RIGHT TO PEACEABLY ASSEMBLY IS VERY EVIDENT.  Once
passed, you can bury the first Amendment and in its place we will have instead
the fourth plank of the Communist Manifesto which is "confiscation" of the
property of rebels, dissidents or anyone else who stand up or speaks out
against the government.

     The two bills to make all of the above possible are Senate Bills 265 and
266.  They were made into two bills for if all of the provisions were placed
in only one bill, almost anyone would be able to spot their true purpose.
This is legislative deception but very necessary if these bills are to become
law now to ease our way into the New World Order.

     The Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) throughout the 80's has broken
ground here in America on HOW TO SEIZE THE PROPERTY of "drug" peddlers and
users.  It is known as "asset forfeiture" and it has worked so well in making
law enforcement the most profitable industry in the country that they will now
DIRECT THIS EXPERTISE to seizing the property of rebels by substituting
"political activity" for "drug activity".

     Asset forfeiture courses are now being taught at law enforcement training
centers both private and government so you can be sure IT IS NOT GOING TO GO
AWAY.  What has really happened here in America, especially in the last decade
is that the GOVERNMENT, with the aid of all of its bureaucracies and created
corporations, has now turned on the people and are using the trust planted in
them to build empires of their own but in the process they have set themselves
up in THE BUSINESS OF CONSPIRING TO OVERTHROW THE LAWFUL GOVERNMENT OF THE
UNITED STATES BY VIOLENT MEANS.

     Anyone who now works for government, because of association and doing the
bidding of that government, is aiding and  abetting that criminal enterprise.
Guild by association is an established legal maxim, so if you work for the
government that fact is enough to convict you of the charge of "conspiring" to
OVERTHROW LAWFUL GOVERNMENT, which in this case happens to be the U.S.
Constitution and the Bill of Rights.  If that is a tough revelation to
swallow, it is, nevertheless, also a bitter truth.

     We suggest that you write your congressman for a copy of S-265 and S-266
so you can read these bills for yourself.  However, these bills are written
much like the IRS Code, for they keep referring you to other codes and
sections which can only be found in law libraries.  S-265 is entitled "A Bill
to Establish Constitutional Procedures for the Imposition of the Death Penalty
for Terrorist Murders and for Other Purposes".

     S-266 is "A Bill to Prevent and Punish Domestic and International
Terrorist Acts and for Other Purposes".

     Please notice that "for Other Purposes" leaves these bill open-ended and
extremely vague so that almost ANY "act" can be determined to be a "terrorist
act".  And the ones to make that determination are those who work for
government and whose jobs may be TOTALLY DEPENDENT upon "asset seizure".  YOUR
ASSETS.

     And something else to keep in mind.  Asset seizure is just another name
for BOUNTY HUNTING.  The way it works is that government "legislates" rights
into "crimes" and in the case of these two bills it is your FIRST AMENDMENT
RIGHTS that will now become "political crimes".  Any exercise of former
"rights" will now put a bounty hunter on your tail and his ONLY concern is how
many of your assets he can seize.  In drug violations, "property" is charged
with the crime and "property" is not entitled to due process or a jury trial.
It will be exactly the same with "political" crimes.  This opens up a vast new
treasure house never before tapped by law enforcement.  You can bet that "law
enforcement" will go into a feeding frenzy if these bills can be forced
through the Congress.  But it may not be so easy, for even as these bills sit
in Committee, opposition is beginning to build against those who would dare to
trample on America's most precious birthright, its First Amendment.  A
politician may tamper with other of the people's rights, but to be so foolish
as to tamper with the First Amendment is political suicide.  And those so
foolish are J.R. Biden and Strom Thurmond.

                    ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                    บ                 IV.                 บ
                    บ How to Turn "Asset Forfeiture" Into บ
                    บ    Government's Worst Nightmare     บ
                    ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

     Up to here "asset forfeiture" is generally unknown to the public-at-
large, but is about to go into a phase shift as strategies are underway to
take it public.

     First, asset forfeiture needs to be called by its right name, bounty
hunting, and those who make their living from it are to be known as BOUNTY
HUNTERS for the motivation behind it is greed and profiteering and justice be
damned.

     Second, the flyer shown of page 4 has now been in circulation for several
months.  It is now being distributed by law students all across the country to
the nation's law firms and law colleges.  It has also been placed in the hands
of the nation's Realtors who stand to suffer greatly from this current batch
and new breed of government bounty hunters.

     Third, the "political activity" bounty hunters will be turned loose on
union picket lines, political demonstrators of all persuasions, teachers
striking for higher pay, in short, any institution that practices "peaceable
assembly" to make their point, so to counter this, a small packet of
literature will be made available with the particulars and how it will affect
their organizations.  These packets are for information only and NOT legal
advice.  They can be ordered from:

S.A. Freeman
P.O. Box 441
Morongo Valley, CA  92256

For a donation of $5.00 (no checks).  They flyer on page 4 will be included in
the packet.

     The reason for placing this flyer in The Connector is because it IS doing
the job for which it was designed, which is to open the eyes of those
innocents who are being severely punished by drug enforcement "bounty
hunters".  By putting it in the hands of lawyers, they will see the obvious
litigation advantages on how to make a buck and by so doing the courts WILL
BECOME SO CLOGGED, SO FAST, that "political" bounty hunting AGAINST AMERICA'S
PATRIOTS will be killed before it even gets started.  We are believers in
whatever works, USE IT.  If you give out this flyer be sure to emphasize that
you are NOT giving legal advice, but information only.  This packet of
literature will get the big unions and lawyers working for our cause,
indirectly, and could also be very useful in college towns where "housing" for
students is associated with drug activities.  If asset forfeiture were to
become known to property owners who depend upon rentals to college students, a
college town could literally be wiped out.  The whole town WOULD THEN RISE UP
AGAINST THE BOUNTY HUNTERS and apply so much heat the government may wish they
had never though of it.  If we can keep the heat on the bounty hunters inn the
"drug" arena, they won't dare tangle with the patriot on asset seizure on a
First Amendment issue.

                       ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                       บ              V.               บ
                       บ Real Estate Litigation Notice บ
                       บ <<reproduction of photocopy>> บ
                       ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

                                   ATTENTION
                                 TRIAL LAWYERS

                           "Real Estate Litigation"

                       Handicapped & Elderly DEFENSELESS
                            Against D.E.A. Seizure

                           Real Estate Agents DON'T
                       Disclose D.E.A. Seizure to Buyers
                    KNOWN - Not able to Physically Inspect
                          Property for Drug Activity


Nationally: Real Estate agents DON'T disclose to property buyers PHYSICALLY
LESS ABLE TO INSPECT PROPERTY for drug activity, they CAN LOSE THEIR PROPERTY
BY D.E.A. for the "unknown drug crimes" of their property occupants.

                                            21 USC 881 (6)(7) 18 USC 1963 (1).

Handicapped, elderly, out-of-town property owners, most often cannot meet
D.E.A.'s undefined standard of vigilance to physically inspect their property
for drug activity.  Federal Drug Laws allow no slack; not even for owners
quadriplegic or senile.  They can have their homes seized by D.E.A. for not
knowing an occupant was selling drugs from their home.

                       Suits Against Real Estate Agents?

Imagine.  A real estate agent telling a jury he didn't consider it material to
inform a senior citizen-buyer of rental property, their obligation to drive-
day or night, walk upstairs, or stay up late to investigate possible drug
activity at their property, could result in having property seized by D.E.A.

Handicapped, elderly, out-of-town buyers, that purchased property through real
estate agents, who would not have, had the sales agent disclosed a buyer's
physical inability to inspect property for drug activity, could result in
D.E.A. seizure, may have cause to sue agents!

Real Estate Licensees should be required to inform handicapped and elderly
property buyers.  D.E.A. has no heart for handicapped and elderly Americans
who are physically less able to discover drug activity at a property.
Disclose, recent Federal Drug Laws allow the government to charge property
with crime.  As a result, jury trials can be refused; illegal searches
condoned; rules of evidence ignored.

43 million Americans are handicapped with physical or mental disabilities.
This number is increasing as the population as a whole is growing older.
Necessary: Forfeiture laws be passed forcing Federal Government to prove
proportionately, to what percentage a handicapped or elderly owner's infirmity
did or did not contribute to their negligence that made property available for
drug activity.  Only to that percentage government can prove a handicapped or
elderly person was actually negligent, should forfeiture be proportionately
considered.

Lawyers should consider lobbying at the Sate and Federal level for laws which
will protect from D.E.A. seizure, handicapped and elderly citizens - not able
to physically inspect property for drug activity.


EOF
 
