
                     ÚÄÄÄ¿        ÚÄÄÄ¿            ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                    ÚÙ   À¿       ³   ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄ      ³
                    ³     ÀÄ¿     ³                ÀÄÄÄÄ¿
                    ³       À¿    ÃÄÄÄÄ¿                ÀÄ¿
                    ³        ³    ³    ÀÄÄ                À¿
                    ³        ³    ³                       ÚÙ
                    ³      ÚÄÙ    ³         ÄÄ¿        ÚÄÄÙ
                    ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ      ³           ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

                    Damned       Fucking        Shit
                        Edited by Access Denied

                              Issue #6
                      Title: CyberSpace and The Freak Scene BBS
                      Date: 10/4/93
                      By: Dr. Techno
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

Date:October 2, 1993

Time:15:26

Location:Somewhere in CyberSpace

Author:Dr. Techno of Black Enterprises.



Well, The following dialouge is from a bbs that ran in Sheboygan
during the summer of 1993 called Freak Scene.  I'm not sure of
it's were about's as of now.  Rumor has it that it's being run
in Madison.  Oh well, enjoy this stuff.   There's alot to be
learned from it.





1/38: Ok, I may have waited too long for this...

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Wed Jul 14 16:26:49 1993



I have already seen quite a few posts that belong on this base...



So let's get down to business.

I want to hear what YOU think about



=-> Is there a cyberpunk movement?  If so, what is it?  What is
important about

it and what drives it?



=-> Have you read Neuromancer?  Are you impressed or not?



=-> Does anyone outside the net HAVE A CLUE about the movement?
How many

people are reached?  What is the extent of the movement as far
as society goes?



=-> Raves, Ecstasy, AI, h/p, techno music, and whatever else you
consider a

little bit Cyberpunk.



I would appreciate anyone who knows to give a definition of any
basic cyberpunk

terms, as even I get confused by the onslaught of new
terminology.

[PAUSE]

(I guess I should say for legal reasons that I find illegal
activity

despicable, like h/p and whatever.  Just watch it, okay?)





                            Rapunzel





2/38: hee hee

Name: Kali #22

Date: Thu Jul 15 23:58:56 1993



i have never been to a rave...want to though (oops, i mean I
WOULD NEVER GO TO

ANYTHING AS UNCLEAN MORALLY AS A RAVE ;)). Repeat after me and
all that...



can anyone tell me where I can get a copy of Neuromancer to read
(short of

Waldenbooks...) I so want to read it, but THE LIBRARY HAS IT NOT!



Oh well...



Kali - 'Post Hard' (stolen from P.U.T.V.)





3/38: Rave?

Name: Butt-Head #35

Date: Fri Jul 16 01:32:10 1993



RE: hee hee

BY: Kali #22



    Would someone please tell me what a rave is????

    Please????

    I'll give you a dollar.

    ok?





4/38: Rave on

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Fri Jul 16 16:00:47 1993



RE: Rave?

BY: Butt-Head #35



¯    Would someone please tell me what a rave is????

¯    Please????

¯    I'll give you a dollar.

¯    ok?



As well as I understand it, a rave is a gathering of cyberpunks
in some secret

place where we/they play industrial/techno music really loud and
dance and wear

funny clothes and blow whistles and wear masks (well, some of
them anyway).



Usually Raves are accompanied by drugs, typically ecstasy.  (All
year in

Madison someone was running around chalking E's and e's all over
the school.

Later I heard it was a bunch of ecstasy freaks.)  That's why
they are kind of

secretive about them sometimes.



I've never been to a rave.  My loss, I guess.  But maybe you
could give me,

[PAUSE]       say, fifty cents for this attempted explanation.



:)  Rapunzel





6/38: Neuromancer

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Mon Jul 19 22:08:27 1993



I am about three-quarters of the way through Neuromancer.  It is
a stunning and

excellent science fiction book, but I don't see what makes it so
special as to

have a huge influence on the Cyberpunk movement.

I do love the terminology!  I want to refer to using the BBS net
as 'jacking

in' and my physical body as 'meat'.

What do Molly's sunglasses look like (other than mirrored?).  I
imagined them

as wire rimmed, but then I saw them portrayed as something like
those classic

black cheap ones (like in Risky Business) but with mirrored
lenses.

Is Neuromancer a movie yet?  Will it be one soon?  I hope they
do a good job of

it if they do, or there will be hell to pay!



Boy is it hot.

Rapunzel





14/38: Well

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Thu Jul 22 21:48:46 1993



RE: Ok, I may have waited too long for this...

BY: Rapunzel #1



I'm not gonna quote you cause I don't have the energy but How
can all of you

people sit around and discuss "CYBERPUNK"  My advice to all of
you is if

you're interested in it, rely in something more than what Time
Magazine or

Connie Chung Tell's you.



Well, This base is a good start





Well, <=====  I like that word.     I go to raves, Have taken X,
Been to all

sorts of underground events, Partaken in underground activities,
have lived out

the media definition, have been busted for hacking, and have
done numerous

other things.





I don't consider myself a cyberpunk.   That was a word defined
by idiots who

[PAUSE]       really have no idea how the majority of the people
in the underground movement

feel.





CONSIDER YOURSELVe's lucky.   You are part of the computer
literate society.





Well, here's some more info.  You can classify our civilization
as in The

Information Age.  People like those in Management information
systems hold the

knowledge.  Pretty soon, Technology will be controlled by those
with the power

and wealth, it is happening already, information will be
restricted and the

majority of us will be and are already being manipulated.

I really hate ths shit, It only allows me 50 lines or so DShit



15/38: hi

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Thu Jul 22 21:52:03 1993



RE: hee hee

BY: Kali #22



>i have never been to a rave...want to though (oops, i mean I
WOULD NEVER GO TO

>ANYTHING AS UNCLEAN MORALLY AS A RAVE ;)). Repeat after me and
all that...

>

>can anyone tell me where I can get a copy of Neuromancer to
read (short of

>Waldenbooks...) I so want to read it, but THE LIBRARY HAS IT
NOT!

>

>Oh well...

>

>Kali - 'Post Hard' (stolen from P.U.T.V.)



Well, As I speek an underground club event is going on tonight
in Milwaukee.

There is a Rave going on on the 31st of july I believe.  Hmm...
SoundLAb is

going on On SAt.





[PAUSE]       All of you who want to witness the underground at
a rave, it is probably too

late.  The scene is sold out and lots of lame people go there.





Oh well, I still advise you get to one before they start haveing
them At the

Bradley Center being sponsored by the local church ")





For Rave info call drop basss network at 414.256.1733



It's ld for you all but it'll only cost like 30 cents for the
call



dt.





16/38: yah

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Thu Jul 22 21:53:37 1993



RE: Rave on

BY: Rapunzel #1



Trying to define underground things defeats the Whole Ideal of
the underground

especially if YOu don't know what you're talking about.







YOU've described the sold out version of raves.





dr. techno







17/38: Bite on

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Thu Jul 22 22:52:23 1993



RE: yah

BY: Dr. Techno #37



¯Trying to define underground things defeats the Whole Ideal of
the underground

¯especially if YOu don't know what you're talking about.



¯YOU've described the sold out version of raves.





Then what IS your definition of rave, you who obviously knows
what you are

talking about, self-declared non-cyberpunk, trying to stay on
the cutting edge

by putting down anything that has been around more than a week,
our

lily-livered waffling doctor?  This question was asked quite
some time ago and

as you were not available with your omniscience some of us had
to feebly

attempt to SPREAD the INFORMATION about WHAT'S GOING ON.

What is not a sell out to you?  You are a part of the ultimate
sell out!

Afraid to hold on to anything because the mainstream might
attempt to

assimilate it tomorrow!  I am sick and tired of elitist
alternative types!  You

[PAUSE]       have just shared three long posts with us about
NOTHING because that's what

you're all about!



Itchin to be Bitchin

Rapunzel





18/38: Uhhh..

Name: Nightsky #9

Date: Fri Jul 23 01:25:47 1993







     You people are hopeless. Yes, Dr. Techno, you have a point.
The whole idea

of underground is secret, more or less, but there are those of
us who are in

that scene also, altho not as much as you say you are.



     Rapunzel is right tho, you should try to be more natural,
you are to the

point of being a hypocrite. You see, being alternative is cool,
but now when

you try to be like all the other alternatives, get what I'm
saying?



     Sure, I've never been busted for hacking, yes I've gone to
raves, yes I've

done the "X"(I like how you put that), but you don't have to go
brag about it

and try to put everyone else down. What you were mostly saying
is "Be like me,

Be like me, I am the picture perfect frame of the alternative
person"



     Well, that don't cut it with me. I for one am who I am and
am damn proud

of it, your ideas and stuff like that don't bother me, I could
care less. More

or less man, your type really makes me puke.

[PAUSE]

     We don't want to hear about your feats or anything so take
and shove where

the sun don't shine. Ok? Thanks.





     Pissed off big time,



          Nightsky





26/38: fuck you

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Mon Jul 26 22:22:16 1993



RE: Bite on

BY: Rapunzel #1



>Then what IS your definition of rave, you who obviously knows
what you are

>talking about, self-declared non-cyberpunk, trying to stay on
the cutting edge



>by putting down anything that has been around more than a week,
our

>lily-livered waffling doctor?  This question was asked quite
some time ago and



>as you were not available with your omniscience some of us had
to feebly

>attempt to SPREAD the INFORMATION about WHAT'S GOING ON.

>What is not a sell out to you?  You are a part of the ultimate
sell out!

>Afraid to hold on to anything because the mainstream might
attempt to

>assimilate it tomorrow!  I am sick and tired of elitist
alternative types!  Yo



>have just shared three long posts with us about NOTHING because
that's what

>you're all about!

>

>Itchin to be Bitchin

>Rapunzel



You probably live in a fairy tale world.  Dreamin about raves
and Thinking your

a cool alternative freak.   I don't know, but Allot of you
people have never

been in the real world.



Grow up, enter reality.



Do you have friends who've died from drugs???   Maybe
relatives???

How was highschool????   Did you ever get chased by gangs,
busted for hacking,

and almost get kicked out of school????

[PAUSE]

Have you ever been arrested, (I'll continue this)







Read:(1-38,^26),? :



27/38: continued

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Mon Jul 26 22:27:16 1993



Did you know what alternative was before You saw 120 minutes on
MTV???





Do you think this is the fucking 60's??????



Wake up!!!



This world is fucked up.....



Some of us don't know where we'll be in a month.  Shit, you're
going to college

right.  I only have enough money for like 1 semester.  My
parents were real

people, not corporate assholes who have lots of money, and
bought there little

kiddie a computer.



Ever been out of WI??????  HUH????



Probably not....



[PAUSE]       You're just another one of those Wisconsin
Hillbilly hicks who thinks theie

totally Avant Guarde.



Shit, If only you could wake up.  Open your eyes...

This isn't the land of the free and home of the brave.  It's
quite the

opposite.  Societys in fucking decay splintering into millions
of cultures.

Shit, we both may be white, but But we hold different ideals and
values, we

speak differetly, act differently.  We're human aren't we
not???????



Guess what?????  I still haven't judged you by anyhting you've
posted here nore

will I ever judge you (I'll continue this...)

`



28/38: more shit

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Mon Jul 26 22:29:31 1993



I don't judge people by one message I've read on a fucking
LIFELESS computer.

I hope you haven't judged me  either.  For all you could know, I
could be an 81

year old grandpa doing this as a joke.  maybe I'm a football
Jock?  Maybe I'm a

lesbian.  Maybe a Gay military General.







How do you know if you haven't been where I've been?



Do you see where I'm coming from?



peace and Love



DR. TEchno

Don't judge lest you be judged.





29/38: I don't believe it

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Mon Jul 26 22:33:48 1993



RE: Uhhh..

BY: Nightsky #9



Well, Cool Mr.  Yah, I never really considered myself
alternative.  The media

say's I am.  Society says I am.



So what you say???   You hate me you say???





You don't know me.



You can't know me from what I post.





It makes me sick the way You PAss Judgement.



I posted those messages Partly to see how people would judge me.



[PAUSE]       I repsect you for your comments, but How can we
all get along if we are all so

quick to judge.



I repect everybody.

Almost everybody



People like rapists, killers, etc, have no place here.





dr. techno







30/38: Mais oui

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Mon Jul 26 23:27:35 1993



RE: fuck you

BY: Dr. Techno #37



¯You probably live in a fairy tale world.

  ^Of course!  That's why I am Rapunzel.



  Dreamin about raves and Thinking you a cool alternative freak.


  ^I never said I'd been to a rave or that I considered myself
alternative.

Where are you getting this?   You are the self-proclaimed
(sorry,

society-proclaimed according to yourself) alternative.



¯Grow up, enter reality.

 ^What qualifies you to define reality?





31/38: Hillbilly hick

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Mon Jul 26 23:46:46 1993



RE: continued

BY: Dr. Techno #37



¯Did you know what alternative was before You saw 120 minutes on
MTV?

   ^Some of us poor hillbilly hicks don't have MTV.  Like me,
for example.

    (What the hell is 120 minutes?  120 minutes of what?  I
still don't know

what alternative is, nor do I claim to... you were saying?)



¯Some of us don't know where we'll be in a month.  Shit, you're
going to colleg

¯right.  I only have enough money for like 1 semester.  My
parents were real

¯people, not corporate assholes who have lots of money, and
bought there little

¯kiddie a computer.

    ^You're absolutely right.  And this is my fault.  Please...
take it out on

me.  Why don't I give up all of my material possessions to make
it better?

I KNOW how lucky I am!  I would be stupid not to see it.  I wish
everyone could

get a fair start, but they don't.  And stop picking on my poor
'rental units.

They try their best.

...next subject...

[PAUSE]       I'm aware that the world, particularly this
country, is going multicultural.  I

think that it's a good thing.  It's unrealistic to and
impractical to think

that 5 billion people (or the whatever hundred American million)
could share a

culture. Why is multiculturalism bad?


BUT this is my favorite part.

¯You're just another one of those Wisconsin Hillbilly hicks who
thinks theie

¯totally Avant Guarde.

                     -and-

¯Guess what?????  I still haven't judged you by anyhting you've
posted here nor

¯will I ever judge you (I'll continue this...)

What the hell?  Sure, I'm judging what you say, but at least I'm
not too

hypocritical to admit it.  I am an inconsistent bitch!



Thank you for the posts, dear Doctor.

Rapunzel





32/38: Well the logical conclusion then,

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Mon Jul 26 23:50:15 1993



RE: more shit

BY: Dr. Techno #37



¯How do you know if you haven't been where I've been?

¯

¯Do you see where I'm coming from?



Maybe you should tell us where you've been.  I like stories.
(Yes I'm

serious, dammit.)  Have some milk and sit down and tell us about
it before

some innocent bystander gets disemboweled.



¯peace and Love



You and your fairy tale world.  :)



Good night.



Rapunzel

[PAUSE]       (waiting for the bedtime story)







Read:(1-38,^32),? :



33/38: Blah..

Name: Mick #13

Date: Tue Jul 27 02:04:56 1993



RE: continued

BY: Dr. Techno #37



DT> Some of us don't know where we'll be in a month.  Shit,

DT> you're going to college right.  I only have enough money for

DT> like 1 semester.  My parents were real  people, not

DT> corporate assholes who have lots of money, and bought there

DT> little  kiddie a computer.

DT>

DT> Ever been out of WI??????  HUH????

DT>

DT> Probably not....

DT>

DT> You're just another one of those Wisconsin Hillbilly hicks

DT> who thinks theie  totally Avant Guarde.



I know this wasn't directed at me, but what the hell.  I'll
reply anyway.



[PAUSE]       1.  I'm not going to college.

2.  My parent's were real people.  They didn't buy me a computer.

3.  Yes, I've been out of WI.  Many times.  Geez, I've even been
on those

things they call airplanes.

3.  Hick?  Sure...



DT> Do you have friends who've died from drugs???   Maybe

DT> relatives??? How was highschool????   Did you ever get

DT> chased by gangs, busted for hacking,  and almost get kicked

DT> out of school????

1.  I've had friends and relatives die.

2.  I dropped out of school.  Went to college a bit.  Dropped
out.

3.  Busted for hacking?  No, I'm not stupid.





34/38: Again..

Name: Mick #13

Date: Tue Jul 27 02:10:03 1993



RE: continued

BY: Dr. Techno #37



DT> You probably live in a fairy tale world.  Dreamin about

DT> raves and Thinking your a cool alternative freak.   I don't

DT> know, but Allot of you people have never  been in the real

DT> world.



Sorry, but unlike how you seem to portray yourself.. I don't
have a need to

fit in and be labeled with any group whether that be
'alternative' or not.  I

dress how I want to dress.. not to wear the in or stylish thing.
 I shave my

head because I want to.. not because it's cool to certain
people.  I wear many

earrings.. because I want to.  What the hell is wrong with just
bing yourself

these days.  The way you live is not better than mine or the
other way around.



You, Dr. Techno, do seem to have an attitude problem.



Mick





35/38: agreed

Name: Nightsky #9

Date: Tue Jul 27 03:27:22 1993



RE: Again..

BY: Mick #13









     You are who you are. Nobody can put you in a class.







Oh, and to everyone else who was saying that people are chicken
shits for not

posting their name on EVERY-FUCKING-POST, why is that? There are
just some

times when it is more adventageous to NOT have your name
standing there

prominently at the top of your message. Stop being so
judgemental of everyone

(ESPECIALLY POOR DR.TECHNO!!! Geez, the poor guy, everyone
mentally beating up

on him...)



Kali - Not a chickenshit







37/38: Post wars

Name: Rapunzel #1

Date: Tue Jul 27 15:43:00 1993



Funky Kali >> Stop being so judgemental of everyone (ESPECIALLY
POOR

DR.TECHNO!!! Geez, the poor guy, everyone mentally beating up on
him...)



I know nobody likes being judgemental, but I don't feel like
sitting here being

abused on my own board.  I did not put it up so that people
could bash me for

fun.  Here is the post that started it.  It was in response to
the only

definition of raves I had to give...  which was admittedly
inadequate and a

bland post.

Dr. Techno's post >>

Dr. Techno #37

Thu Jul 22 21:53:37 1993

RE: Rave on

BY: Rapunzel #1



Trying to define underground things defeats the Whole Ideal of
the underground

especially if YOu don't know what you're talking about.



YOU've described the sold out version of raves.

[PAUSE]

dr. techno



This is not a horrible post, but I think that this was
pretentious and overly

hostile. I don't see why I should sit here and enjoy it whenever
some user

thinks they can take out their hostility on me, this board, or
its users.  I

think it ruins the atmosphere and that royally pisses me off.



            Rapunzel



BTW  I think that the Dr. is so proud of being estranged that he
takes our

written beatings as compliment.  If he cared he would have
indicated as such.

Such are freaks.  Sometimes even freaks don't understand them.







38/38: duh

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Tue Jul 27 18:33:30 1993



RE: Again..

BY: Mick #13



Well, I posted those messages Just to see how you'd all react.
I'm kinda

suprised and Allot of the reactions I wasn't as suprised about.





I'm going to use my findiungs for a research/paper I'm writing
about people.

I'll give anybody on this board a copy if yah want.





Thanks for all the feedback hehehe





dr. techno







39/39: to everybody

Name: Dr. Techno #37

Date: Tue Jul 27 18:47:32 1993



Well, I've seen lots of hatred here and people caught up in
discussions that

really don't mean much at all.  I really thank everybody for all
the discussion

that went on here.  I've captured all of the posts and are using
them in a

research paper/informative paper I'm writing.  I'll upload a
copy here when I'm

done with it if that's possible.



People have to realise that people are people.  YOu can't judge
others By mere

statements on a bbs, by the way they dress, etc.  I advise
eevrybody to show

more love to everybody else.



Our world is disappearing fast.  Society is decaying in many
parts.  People

just don't care about other people, and it was proven here.



Well, thats all for now, I'll let everybody think about that.



Dr. Techno

A soul in Black





Log Off? Yes

Time on   = 00:19:53



_____________________________

______________________________________

___________________________________________

___________________________________________

________________________________________________

_________________________________________________

____________________________________________

_______________________________________

____You   _______________________

_________________________________are

  _____________________________    ____________

_________________leaving  _______

_________________________________________

__________FREAK   __________

______________________________________

________SCENE  __________________

____________________________________________

____



NO CARRIER







Well, that was the second to the last time I logged on that
board.  THe last time I logged on I requested that my acct. be
destroyed, and left a post something like this.





		'Let He who is without sin cast the First Stone'

		Since all of ya'll like casting stones at averybody I assume
you're all perfect.



		Let me leave you with one quote from a New Order Song

		'I've seen what man can do, And I've seen the hate of the
women too..."

Well, There it was, I hope you enjoyed It.

I'd really appreciate some feed back as to what you thought of
the dialogue that transpired those summer days in cyberspace.





Send all e-mail, feedback, and concerns to
ajvuolo@students.wisc.edu

I promise I'll reply to all mail that I receive in which a reply
is requested.







Peace and Love

I'm outta here.



Dr. Techno



ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
º             Distribution Sites:                     º
º        If you're on the BBSs you know it.           º
º           Fuck you if you're not.                   º
ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼
^Z

