

*   *   *   *   *   *    *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

              -= H A C K E R S =-

                    Issue #8, October, 1996:  Mischief Night!

            Edited by:  Revolution


              -------------------
              Hackers Forums
              -------------------

  From the Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Revolution


  Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hackers World Wide

  Checks and Balances . . . . . . . . . . . .Voters Telecommunications Watch

              -------------------
               Technology
              -------------------

  DTMF Scanner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jojo

  Hacking Answering Machines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jojo

  MCI - 1-800-Collect Fraud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PBXPhreak

  Phone Bugging and Modifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . James M Atkinson


              --------------------
                 Politics
              --------------------

  Is the NSA Watching? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .NorthStar Mailing List


  The End . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Revolution

----------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
copyright 1996 by Mike Scanlon All articles remain the property of their
authors, and may be reprinted with their permission.  This zine may be
reprinted freely as a whole electronically, for hard copy rights mail the
editor.  HACKERS is published monthly by Mike Scanlon, to be added to the
subscription list or to submit articles mail mrs3691@megahertz.njit.edu
----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
*   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

            -= H A C K E R S =-

          Issue #8,  File #1 of 9

              From the Editor

        Finally?  Another issue?  Hell yeah.  We finally have a respectable
web site up at http://people.delphi.com/scanlonr.  If you have a page of your
own, or know someone who does, try and get them to link me to advertise the
page.  I'm toying with the idea of starting a newsgroup, just for the fun of
it, but more on that in the coming months.
        The coming months?  Yes, I plan on getting into the mag a lot more,
for real this time.  I finally have a steady job and am getting used to the
school work.  And while ideas are being toyed with, how about a minicon in
Manhattan?  That's kind of off in the distance now, but if anyone knows of any
perspective sites, send me mail.
        A political column has been started courtesy of VTW, checks and
balances.  I've found an author for a bug of the month column, but could not
get in touch with him before I felt this issue should be out.  Also, Hackers
Profiles will be a monthly column, but I did not have time to get an interview
done after I decided to get this issue out.
        I'm not going to write much more now, but I've been hustling behind
the scenes these last couple of weeks with a couple of projects...so don't
change that dial.  Look for a lot more from this direction...

               -Revolution

*   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
As always, the standard disclaimer applies.  All of these articles are
provided for informational purposes only, Mike Scanlon and the respective
authors cannot be held accountable for any illegal acts they are used to
commit.
*   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

