|F2of7|
_____________________________________________________________


                          A.P.I
                 American Pirate Industries
        News Letter Volume I written on July 13, 1989
 
                   Written by: Mind Shadow
                   Edited by: Laughing Gas
 
____________________________________________________________
 
     This might look a little unprofessional compared to
some other newsletters, but you have to remember this is our
first newsletter. We are trying to make it as informative as
possible. Right now we don't care about style. Later on in
future issues we will work on the format of our newsletter.
Right now the purpose of this newsletter is to tell you who
we are, what were going to do, how we came about, and who is
in API.
 
     The first order of business I have to take care of is
answering the question Who is API? And what are they going to
do? Well, to answer those questions I must also include our
history. So here goes...about 3 months ago I was trying to
start up a group called KORT (Knight's of the Round Table). I
had no idea that there already existed a group called TKRT.
(And TKRT was a loser cracking group stealing cracks at that)
When I found out I abandoned the idea of starting up a group
because I met Laughing Gas. We both has the same idea. We
wanted to have not a hacking group, but a pirate group that
gave out information on new products, clues to games, and any
other business doings in the pirate world. I met Laughing Gas
and he suggested a group called API and asked me to join. I
agreed and that is basically how we came to be.

     API is not like your regular group that cracks games and
joins sysops of boards. We may have a branch that will
perform these duties, but as of right now, our main goal is
to INFORM the pirate world of new games, when their coming
out, our own personal opinion of the game, clues to games,
the docs to the game, some fixes for the game, and any other
important issues that may come up. You may make the analogy
of a newspaper to us. We will have information, some
editorials (in future volumes), classifieds, advertisements,
and upcoming products. We may include a Blacklist, but other
groups seem to have taken care of that problem. Some people
may think that we are just going to be like a falling star,
flickering briefly and then dissapearing. We have no
intention of being a falling star. We are here to stay unless
we get negative results from this newsletter.
 
     Let me explain what I mean by a newspaper. We are going
to start the newsletter off by any important issues that have
come up in the pirate world. We will allow sysops to place an
ad in the newsletter advertising their board, and any other
information they may want to include. Also we will have an
editorial section letting the users express their views. For
example the subject of Guns or China. In the classifieds we would
put messages concerning the sale of an HD, or modem, etc.
Getting back to the news part we would have a pirate section
in general like the front page of your newspaper. Then we
would have a phreak section on busts or anything interesting,
a hack section concerning VAX's, UNIX's, etc., then an
anarchy section. I am not real thrilled about having this
section, but people have expressed their approval of having
one. That about sums up what the API newsletter will be, and
what we will be doing.
 
     A second issue of business I may want to add is that we
don't want ANY problems with any cracking groups. We in no
way are trying to compete with you. One, we are NOT a
cracking group, and two, we try to get any new information
from the cracking groups themselves. We are working in
conjunction with the groups trying to help them spread
information all over the country. Like NAP/PA's goal is to
unite all the cracking groups, ours is to spread information
throughout the pirate world.
 
     Other current members of API include Laughing Gas, Sturm
Brightblade, piro (like's his name in small letters), Missing
Link, me (Mind Shadow). We currently are looking for new
members who have excellent knowledge in the field of
phreaking, carding, hacking, and anarchy. If you are
interested in becoming a member then follow the directions on
the API application. To sysops who would like to become a
drop site for the API newsletter, follow the instructions on
the Drop Site application. We have alot of future plans, 
but what happens remains to be seen.
 
     I'm am pretty positive everyone knows that the PCP has
changed the format for their password and their rates.  Well
you might have not known that MCI has gotten 1400 more lines
around the nation. Don't ask me why. I doubt they could put
an ANI on each one, so phreaking with MCI MAY be less
dangerous than sprint or AT&T.
 
    Well, that concludes our first newsletter....Oh yea I
almost forgot..I would like to say a few things about Phoebus
Apollo. Those of us on the East Coast will sorely miss Gates
of Dawn, but besides that, we will also miss the person
running Gates of Dawn. A real swell guy, well-liked by
everyone. Good luck in California, and K.I.T. with the pirate
world. Nothing like the Sun....
 
     Well, that definitely concludes our first newsletter. I
hope you have enjoyed it, and I am looking forward to your
opinions. Please, tell us what you thought of the newsletter.
What we could change or improve, or what we could add. We
only can get better with user support and criticism. I hope
this newsletter has given you some information you didn't
know before, and the next one should be out by the latest...
..October.  

So to sum it all up...I would like to thank everyone who has 
helped API out in the criticism and help. Until next time....
 
         Mind Shadow
          [2 Hype]


______________________________________________________________________________
 __________________________________END_______________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                                NIRVANAnet(tm)

 &TOTSE                510/935-5845   Walnut Creek, CA         Taipan Enigma
 Burn This Flag        408/363-9766       San Jose, CA                Zardoz
 realitycheck          415/666-0339  San Francisco, CA    Poindexter Fortran
 Governed Anarchy      510/226-6656        Fremont, CA             Eightball
 New Dork Sublime      805/823-1346      Tehachapi, CA               Biffnix
 Lies Unlimited        801/278-2699 Salt Lake City, UT            Mick Freen
 Atomic Books          410/669-4179      Baltimore, MD               Baywolf
 Sea of Noise          203/886-1441        Norwich, CT             Mr. Noise
 The Dojo              713/997-6351       Pearland, TX               Yojimbo
 Frayed Ends of Sanity 503/965-6747     Cloverdale, OR              Flatline
 The Ether Room        510/228-1146       Martinez, CA Tiny Little Super Guy
 Hacker Heaven         860/456-9266        Lebanon, CT         The Visionary
 The Shaven Yak        510/672-6570        Clayton, CA             Magic Man
 El Observador         408/372-9054        Salinas, CA         El Observador
 Cool Beans!           415/648-7865  San Francisco, CA        G.A. Ellsworth
 DUSK Til Dawn         604/746-5383   Cowichan Bay, BC         Cyber Trollis
 The Great Abyss       510/482-5813        Oakland, CA             Keymaster

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
