


                    API - American Pirate Industries

                        Newsletter, Isssue #2.

                            File #1 of 4.




                                                                        Page 1.

===============================================================================
                     API NEWSLETTER - UPDATE TO ISSUE #1.
===============================================================================

Well, it's been quite a while since our last newsletter, people were asking
about the second one immediately after the first was released.. well, here
it is.. The second one.. it was originally planned to be much bigger, but since
we're in a rush, we've released this one, the third one should be bigger and
better.

The third one IS being worked on, but we are having a couple of problems. One:
All of our members have better things to do than work on the newsletter (girls,
school, real lives, etc). Two: There's not really much going on right now to
write about. We are continuing to release cheats, and a text file here or
there, but there hasnt been that much to write about. We've tried to narrow it
down to what you want to know that you may or may not, and not include alot
about ourselves or unimportant things. That limits our size very much, but in
an effort to not become dormant, as some groups have, we have decided to
release this newsletter to let you know what's going on with us.

Many people have been asking "So what's API doing now?  I haven't seen anything
from them in a while...", well, that's what this update will cover, it mentions
just about everything we're working on that is close to positive.. we have alot
of activities going, but not everything is definite, and therefore, we can't
really mention it all.

===============================================================================




                                                                        Page 2.

===============================================================================
                                US AND YOU.
===============================================================================

First, a word on us. We're here because we are trying to serve the entire
underground world. This includes the realms of piracy, phreaking, hacking,
anarchy, and fraud. In each of the upcomming issues we will try to include
information on all of these topics. 

Now a word on us and you, and how we can help each other.

Currently, our ranks are made up of exclusivly IBM users. I am sure that there
are people in the Apple/Commodore/Atari realms with plenty of information and
knowledge that everyone could benifet from. If you use a non-IBM/DOS Based
machine and think you could provide quaility information to our newsletters, or
write quality files on Phreaking, Hacking, Anarchy, or Fraud call any API board
that you have the number to, or if you dont have any, call Solsbury Hill
(301/428-3268) and apply, in your feedback state that you'd like to be a member
Of course, if you have use an IBM machine, and think you have something to
offer, you can do the same.

If you are already writing [text] files, or have been, but do not wish to be
in a group, contact us anyway, and we will make sure your files get
distributed, your files will not be altered in any way, except some sort of
little "Distributed by A.P.I." will be stuck on the bottom.

If you wish to write files, and remain anonymous, that's ok too. We will see
that the file(s) is/are distributed and you will remain completely anonymous.

Remember, we are here to serve you, the underground community, and to serve you
better, we need your opinions, ideas, etc.. leave feedback on any API board, or
contact any API member on any other board.

===============================================================================


Page #3 - Quick News / Conclusion

===============================================================================

Now what's been going on with us...

Black Sabbath has left the BBS community for good, and his board went with
him naturally.  We'll miss him.

Mind Shadow hasn't been heard from for ages, his fate is unknown.

We are now proudly sponsoring AfterShock BBS software.

We are currently in the process of straightening out and totally (re)organizing
our BBS/network system, and setting up our distribution system.

We also have plans for API subs on several Networks.

More news to come...

Boy this is a small letter...

===============================================================================


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                                NIRVANAnet(tm)

 &TOTSE                510/935-5845   Walnut Creek, CA         Taipan Enigma
 Burn This Flag        408/363-9766       San Jose, CA                Zardoz
 realitycheck          415/666-0339  San Francisco, CA    Poindexter Fortran
 Governed Anarchy      510/226-6656        Fremont, CA             Eightball
 New Dork Sublime      805/823-1346      Tehachapi, CA               Biffnix
 Lies Unlimited        801/278-2699 Salt Lake City, UT            Mick Freen
 Atomic Books          410/669-4179      Baltimore, MD               Baywolf
 Sea of Noise          203/886-1441        Norwich, CT             Mr. Noise
 The Dojo              713/997-6351       Pearland, TX               Yojimbo
 Frayed Ends of Sanity 503/965-6747     Cloverdale, OR              Flatline
 The Ether Room        510/228-1146       Martinez, CA Tiny Little Super Guy
 Hacker Heaven         860/456-9266        Lebanon, CT         The Visionary
 The Shaven Yak        510/672-6570        Clayton, CA             Magic Man
 El Observador         408/372-9054        Salinas, CA         El Observador
 Cool Beans!           415/648-7865  San Francisco, CA        G.A. Ellsworth
 DUSK Til Dawn         604/746-5383   Cowichan Bay, BC         Cyber Trollis
 The Great Abyss       510/482-5813        Oakland, CA             Keymaster

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
