          ___   ___    ___    ____ __   _____    __   ____  __
         / __\ /__ \  /__ \  / __//  | / /__ \  / /  / /  |/  |
        / /_/ //  \ \//  \ \/ /_ / /||/ //  \ \/ /  / / /| /| |
       / __  //   / //   / / __// / |  //   / / /  / / / |/ | |
      / / / //___/ //___/ / /__/ /  / //___/ / /__/ / /     | |
     /_/ /_/______/______/____/_/  /_/______/\_____/_/ TEXTFILES
----------------------------------------------------------------------
      #100 : Monday 9 August 2003 : http://addendumtextfiles.org
----------------------------------------------------------------------

	Did it ever occur to you that this is a difficult process?
	By Gir
 	¯¯¯¯¯¯
When I think of Addendum, I think of the dark age in which Addendum
did not exist.  I do not mean the time before Addendum, but the time
where very briefly ADDENDUM WAS NO MORE!  Just as our parents
generation asks "Where were you when JFK was shot," our generation
will ask "Where were you when the plane hit the south tower?"  And
then you'll be all like "WHO GIVES A SHIT!?!  WHERE WERE YOU WHEN
STEAK LEFT ADDNEDUM BEHIND FOR ANGSTMONSTER?"

My plan was to recall this event and how it made me feel to watch a
fallen comrade in the WAR that is the Current Text Scene but alas, I
can find no record of this event ever taking place...  What does that
mean?  Is there something afoot?  NO!  I'M JUST KIDDING WITH YOU!  If
you would all refer to issue 86 of Addendum you will see Steak's
goodbye to the world!  SEE IT!? I'M NOT CRAZY LIKE YOU THINK!  IT'S
JUST THE PRESSURE OF BEING THE HEAD HONCHO INVOLVED IN SETTING UP AN
EZINE THAT'S GETTING TO ME!  I'm cracking like Humpty dumpty, about to
fall of a wall.  Maybe it's more like Percy Procellweight,  stuck in a
bad dream about being rolled over and eaten hard boiled style.

WHAT THE FUCK AM I TALKING ABOUT?

Simply, pain.  THE PAIN THE PAIN THE PAIN!  IT'S LIKE BAD GOTH POETRY!

That's really only the beginning of what it takes to have a successful
ezine. But how do you judge a successful ezine?  Is it by the number
of readers, the response from the anonymous Internet audience, the
quality of the files for  said ezine?  ALL THAT MEANS SHIT IF YOUR
EZINE DOESN'T HAVE A RETROSPECTIVE CELEBRATION ISSUE!

Being that this is Addendum's one hundredth issue, a look back through
the eyes of the people that were there, Addendum has made it's way
into success  territory.  Such a feat could have not been completed if
not for Steak.  With  his infinitely mysterious ways of the Australian
bush country, Steak has proven to all the haters that it is possible
for one man to carry an ezine on his back like the weight of the world
and continually release amazing and thought  provoking files.  Not
letting his guest appearances in other zines get in his way, I should
have said all of this of the fine lad in my review of his zine for the
Current Text Scene.  Alas, I was at a loss for words then or any time
anyone has asked me why I enjoy Addendum as much as I do.  I think
it's because Steak is from Australia like Russell Crowe.  Being that
Russell Crowe was in a movie called "A Beautiful Mind" with a co-star
who played the part of Geoffery Chaucer in "A Knight's Tale," which
was a very well played example of an extraodinary storyteller at work,
I think that everyone should read Addendum.

It may just save your life one day.

If that doesn't work though, you might just be better off writing for
Addendum. I hear that if you write a certain amount of files for Steak
he will use his magical wilderness bushmen powers that he picked up
from a rabid koala bear to grant you immortality.

What more could you ask for?

SILLY READER!  Addendum answers all of your questions, so stop asking
for more!




______________________________________________________________________

"Addendum is one of my favorite zines because it is consistent in both
its [release times] and quality." -EBA

¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯



----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Disclamer -
 This content of this issue of Addendum is copyrighted the respective
 author whose name or handle should appear at the top of this page.
 You may copy this textfile but please keep it in its original
 configuration. Please note that the views expressed in this piece do
 not necessarily reflect the views of addendum as a whole. Thankyou.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
