          ___   ___    ___    ____ __   _____    __   ____  __
         / __\ /__ \  /__ \  / __//  | / /__ \  / /  / /  |/  |
        / /_/ //  \ \//  \ \/ /_ / /||/ //  \ \/ /  / / /| /| |
       / __  //   / //   / / __// / |  //   / / /  / / / |/ | |
      / / / //___/ //___/ / /__/ /  / //___/ / /__/ / /     | |
     /_/ /_/______/______/____/_/  /_/______/\_____/_/ TEXTFILES
----------------------------------------------------------------------
     #102 : Tuesday 26 August 2003 : http://addendumtextfiles.org
----------------------------------------------------------------------

	 Unemployment, by Steak
 	¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
It’s Christmas eve, the fire is in the grate, burning like some kind
of maniacal pyromaniac, the presents are all stacked neatly under the
tree, illuminated mostly by the fait magical glow that only Christmas
tree lights can eve shine.

There is a small family gathering around the tree, the children are
excited of the prospect that Santa will be flying down the chimney
tonight. Images of the jolly red guy preparing his reindeer and sleigh
in the North Pole to deliver presents to all the children of the world
float though their young immature minds.

Now although that scene may be reminiscent of many similar scenarios
played out around the world in many different home in countless
numbers of countries but this particular memory is from my own
personal childhood.

On this night I ask my mother a very simple question that I am sure
all people have asked at one point in their life "Why can’t Christmas
come everyday?" I think that was a healthy question to ask when I was
wondering what made that particular day so special. No I never bought
that Birth of Jesus stuff, shepherds watching their flocks by night in
winter? Yeah I don’t think so either.

The answer I eventually received was that if Christmas came everyday
then soon after a while I’d get bored of it. At the time I couldn’t
fathom that, how could I ever get bored of getting free presents? If
the option came along to have them everyday I would have been the
luckiest kid alive. It would have been impossible not to want that,
wouldn’t it?

Well now I’ve grown up, I know Santa doesn’t exist and I know my
parents always bought me my presents. I’m not bitter about it because
I realise that Christmas is really only for children. Just like almost
every other single ‘magical’ thing that has been destroyed by that
horrible thing called maturation.

Anyway, as adults we don’t have Christmas to look forward to, we just
get weekends, and we wait with bated breath as the idea of lie-ins and
long sunny days with nothing to do stagnate in our minds- only to
become ultimately shot down in a torrent of anti climax.

So naturally we wonder (like the kids at Christmas) how cool it would
be if the weekends came every day.

And then one day you get fired, or you leave your job or something and
your wish comes true. You wake up the next day at least safe in the
knowledge that you have days and days ahead of you with nothing to do.
Inevitably these free weekends start building up until you are now
used to getting up when you feel like, drinking coffee and spending
the day listing to music.

What is the point of this article? To let you all know that
unemployment is extremely addictive, especially when you aren’t
completely broke. You loose sight of the fact that days spent at home
with nothing to do aren’t meant for every day and you get lazy.

I tend to just sit around and listen to music a lot. That’s also the
problem, there is only so much you can write about siting around and
listening to music, and most of what you can write is boring and
doesn’t make for good reading. That is of course not implying that
this article is any better, it is after all derived from the only
inspiration I have been able to find in the last few weeks.

I think I am coming close now to physically running out of ideas for
what to write. I even went as far as to place a tape recorder in a
prominent position in my home ready to record any and all thoughts
that I may or may not have at any moment. It’s a nice idea but
unfortunately all that’s on there at he moment is just some vague
rambling about allusions to night

So people, get a job, keep a job, and work hard at it, make money,
realise how stupid the people in the world can be and then tell
everyone else, either verbally or literally. Because you’ll run out of
ideas and leave all the people that you love out in the cold with no
thoughts to plagiarize.

Not that you would do that.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Disclamer -
 This content of this issue of Addendum is copyrighted the respective
 author whose name or handle should appear at the top of this page.
 You may copy this textfile but please keep it in its original
 configuration. Please note that the views expressed in this piece do
 not necessarily reflect the views of addendum as a whole. Thankyou.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

