          ___   ___    ___    ____ __   _____    __   ____  __
         / __\ /__ \  /__ \  / __//  | / /__ \  / /  / /  |/  |
        / /_/ //  \ \//  \ \/ /_ / /||/ //  \ \/ /  / / /| /| |
       / __  //   / //   / / __// / |  //   / / /  / / / |/ | |
      / / / //___/ //___/ / /__/ /  / //___/ / /__/ / /     | |
     /_/ /_/______/______/____/_/  /_/______/\_____/_/ TEXTFILES
----------------------------------------------------------------------
   #105 : Sunday 21st September 2003 : http://addendumtextfiles.org
----------------------------------------------------------------------

	 Cutter, by Steak
 	¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Jane’s alarm went off and she jumped from her morning bed with the
feeling and energy that only a beautiful teenage girl can have. She
spent some time running the shower as she prepared the torrent of
moisturisers and beauty products that she applied to her face every
morning.

After rubbing the seemingly endless collection of skin creams into her
face she dressed herself, picked up her keys and mobile phone and
opened the door into the inviting morning sun. It was a wonderful
feeling one that made her almost sure that she was going to enjoy her
work today more than ever.

***

Greg woke up and looked around, the sun was shining in through the
window and beating down on his carpet casting a warm bright glow on
floor.

Greg felt kind of weird today, it was a special kind of weird that
happened only once in a while, about say once every week or so. The
feeling was an odd one, one that filled his body with greater meaning,
a sensation that made him feel he was worth something, made him feel
he actually had a purpose in this world.

Greg liked it very much when he got this feeling, he actually felt
like he was going to have a half decent day for once. He flipped his
legs over the bed and put his clothes on and made his way gingerly to
in the way of the bathroom.

***

As I woke up the first thing I saw was the clock. I couldn’t believe
how early it was, eight thirty is early for someone who is unemployed
and has about as many qualifications as a rabidly diseased rat. But
irrespective of the time the fact still remained that I just couldn’t
get back to sleep, I was awake and there was nothing I could do about
it.

I dismounted my bed and filled my brain full of images of mild roast
coffee and beautiful mornings, which surprisingly this was one of, I
took the brisk morning air right down deep into my lungs and exhaled
as it filled my blood stream full of rich oxygen. Yes I thought, today
is special.

***

Jane walked out of her house and down the driveway, the morning was
still beautiful and the air was still sweet and clean. She filled her
head of images of her final destination, that being the local mother
care centre where she would spend the day looking after children who
had parents who were far too busy to take care of their kids
themselves.

Jane wondered why she enjoyed her mother care job so much, she thought
that the reasons probably stemmed back to a point in her childhood
when she had come to the realisation that her parents (as up-and-
coming business account executives) didn’t have enough time to give
her the love and attention she deeply craved.

She felt that in some way this job was letting her reconcile the
differences she had with the memory of her parents. She would have
loved to reconcile with her real parents but there was little chance
of that as about ten years ago they had mysteriously disappeared under
suspicious circumstances and she had long since given up hope of ever
finding them.

***

Greg had that feeling again, the feeling that filled him with mood of
purpose, but this time he was looking at the garden shovel. He decided
that this feeling really wanted him to do some work in the garden with
that shovel. He smiled as he remembered that there was a flowerbed in
the front garden that really needed digging up and planting.

But first he would need food, he made his way to the fridge where he
grabbed the large chunk of meat and cut himself off a slice, he placed
it between two bits of bread and shoved it in his mouth. He wasn’t
sure what meat it was, but boy did it taste good.

He was still munching down on the sandwich as he put his garden boots
and jacket on, as an old man of about sixty he really enjoyed his
gardening it was a little something to ease the pain of growing old a
slight hobby if you will. He grabbed the shovel with enthusiasm and
started towards the flowerbed.

***

I had already made my wake-up-juice (Milk, three sugars and a teaspoon
of the brown coffee - remember that if you ever want to make me
coffee) and I was struggling with my deck chair, I was going to enjoy
this morning if it was the last thing I did in the world.

***

Jane was walking down her road, not many people where up and about at
this time in the morning. In fact she could only see one person on the
entire street and that was old Mr Greg Jones who lived a few houses
down, he seemed to be ploughing his flowerbed with a shovel.

She had only really talked to old Mr Jones a couple of times, once
when she needed to borrow a cup of sugar and once when she had ran out
of food and went to Mr Jones’s house where he had given her the best
ham sandwich she had ever tasted, he had assured her that the meat was
fresh.

As she got closer to him she started feeling that weird feeling you
get when you see someone you don’t know too well, she didn’t know
whether to say a ‘good morning’ or to just ignore him when she passed.

She kept looking at him while she made up her mind what she was going
to do. Jane stepped on a twig or something and made a small noise that
alerted Mr Jones to her presence. He looked up and made eye contact
with her and she felt a little weird, she was very close to him now,
she supposed she better say something.

She was trying to work out what to say to him when she noticed a
strange glint in his eye, and with a speed that seemed unnatural for
an old man he jumped down from his flowerbed onto the road only a few
feet in front of her.

For a few seconds she wondered to herself why he had jumped down in
front of her in this fashion, but she didn’t have time to let this
thought sink into her mind for long because her brain was too busy
being smashed against the bottom of her skull as Mr Jones bought the
garden shovel straight down on top of Jane’s head, delivering a
devastating blow that would surly result in some kind of permanent
brain damage.

***

Greg looked at his victim; she was squirming on the road where she lay
in pool of blood that had spilled from her ears and nose when he had
hit her with the shovel. His beautiful feeling was complete and he
felt better now than he had done all morning - a genuine sense of
accomplishment.

He looked down at the bloody garden implement with disgust and threw
it away. How dare that stupid bitch make his tool dirty with her messy
blood, he would now have to wash the thing, this made him angry so he
gave Jane a few more kicks to the head to extract his penultimate
revenge.

She seemed to react to the kicks in some way. Because of this Greg was
sure that she wasn’t dead but just unconscious, it was quite likely
that some small part of her brain was still registering the pain of
the kicks. He knew that soon she would regain consciousness and wake
up and unless he finished the job sooner or later she would most
likely scream and eventually bring the fuzz down on him, which was a
bad thing.

He tied her up right there and then with garden twine and threw her
almost lifeless body over his shoulder. He carried her across his
garden to the shed where he kept his power tools and laid her down on
the workbench.

***

It was about this time that Jane’s eyes started to open and she took
in her surroundings for what seemed to her like the first time this
morning. She couldn’t understand why it was that she couldn’t move and
why she had a splitting headache, had she been drinking? She really
couldn’t remember if she had gone out or not, in fact when she thought
about it she really couldn’t remember much, except that she missed her
parents.

***

Greg stood over his victim with a satisfied grin on his face, he had
accomplished his mission and it was a success, all that was left to do
was to put the finishing touches to his prize - storage. He walked
over to the buzz saw and switched it on, and he noticed with glee the
look of fear and confusion in his neighbour’s eyes as she comprehended
the buzz saw.

***

As I sat in my deck chair and sipped my beautiful revitalising coffee
I heard my neighbour Mr Jones switch on his buzz saw. “Mr Jones always
uses his buzz saw,” I thought as I heard the sound of him putting a
good-sized log into the cutter.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Disclamer -
 This content of this issue of Addendum is copyrighted the respective
 author whose name or handle should appear at the top of this page.
 You may copy this textfile but please keep it in its original
 configuration. Please note that the views expressed in this piece do
 not necessarily reflect the views of addendum as a whole. Thankyou.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
