           ////|| ||||\\\  ||||\\\  ||||||| |||   ||| ||||\\\  |||   ||| |\\    //|
          ////||| |||  ||| |||  ||| |||     |||\\ ||| |||  ||| |||   ||| |\\\  ///|
         //// ||| |||  ||| |||  ||| |||     |||\\\||| |||  ||| |||   ||| ||\\\///||
        ////__||| |||  ||| |||  ||| |||||   ||| \\\|| |||  ||| |||   ||| |||\\//|||
       ////---||| |||  ||| |||  ||| |||     |||   ||| |||  ||| |||   ||| |||    |||
      ////¯¯¯¯||| |||  ||| |||  ||| |||     |||   ||| |||  ||| |||   ||| |||    |||
     ////     ||| |||  ||| |||  ||| |||     |||   ||| |||  ||| |||   ||| |||    |||
    ////      ||| ||||///  ||||///  ||||||| |||   ||| ||||///   \\\|///  |||    |||
   ////       |||                                                        |||    |||
  ////        |||          Comprehension? Understanding? Bah!            |||    |||

_-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-_
¯	http://members.optushome.com.au/steak/addendum/                             ¯
	Official ADDENDUM press release  #1 by Steak
_	Finalized on Tuesday, 17 December 2002 at 5:45 PM                           _
¯-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-¯

Well people, I’ve never written a press release before so here goes, bear with me.

Seeing as there is a new issue (eighty five) of Addendum out and there are two new
members of the addendum team I intend to write a few lines of information and/or
praise for each member, new or otherwise to explain whom he or she is and what it is
they do.

Steak (yours truly):
Head journalist and Editor to the Addendum magazine. Completes all of his articles,
stories and indeed entire issues of Addendum from a heavily fortified soundproof
studio somewhere in the outer suburbs of Melbourne Australia.  If it wasn't for him
the entire thing wouldn't even exist and other zines would have possession of these
wonderful writing talents I am about to list below.

Phoenix:
The second member to join up and regularly submit articles to Addendum. Currently on
an undercover, information gathering mission, deep inside the heart of the gambling
country, busily infiltrating the ranks of the stupid, ignorant, gullible, and insane.
Little information is known about his current projects (or even if he has any) but
what we have been able to piece together from hurried, frenzied phone calls and
letters scribbled on the back of coffee shop napkins is that he will be emerging
(hopefully soon) with a story of such magnitude it will literally blow your thoughts
on betting away with its awesome splendour. But then again he’s been saying that for
years.

Zircon:
Zircon occasionally submits things for publication, but due to time constraints,
family matters and a fair amount of “Someone-who-isn’t-even-a-writer’s-block” he has
been out of action for a little while, last we heard he was planning on writing a
instructional piece on juggling, based on an idea that steak was throwing around (pun
intended)

Gir:
Editor and Journalist of his own online magazine ‘Angstmonster’ (
http://www.angstmonster.org/txt/) personal friend, and regular communicator to Steak,
Gir sometimes submits articles for Addendum in return for Angstmonster articles from
Steak and sexual sock-puppet favours, not from Steak.

Cmountford,
Recruited from the Winamp forums, Cmountford makes his first appearance in Issue
eighty-five with the first in his multi part story ‘Chris and the Battle with the
Catalpa Worm’ look out for more action and adventure with Chris and someone who is
very close to him in coming issues.

White Raven,
Another writer recruited from the Winamp forums, author of the vampire Novella “When
Love Meets Dark” which (with permission) has been dissected into bit size chunks and
will be appearing regularly in each issue from now on until it’s finished. For your
regular dose of blood and love in this, a highly irregular break from the norm, make
sure you check out this section.

Well that’s everybody; I don’t think I’ve missed anyone out. Remember that there is
always room for more writers and ranters at Addendum, if you want to submit
something, stop by the official site and check out the submission guidelines, make
sure it complies, then send it on in!


_-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-_
¯ You are authorized to pass copies of this text file around to friends, family and ¯
    associates. But you do not have permission to mutate any part of the content
  thereof. If you do, we will find out where you live, burn your house down and kill
    your dog. You wouldn't want us to hurt fluffy now would you? Thankyou for your
_                              continued cooperation.                               _
¯-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-¯

