

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.12 (June 10, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------


***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.12 / File 5 of 5  ***
***************************************************************

                         ** WHERE ARE THEY NOW? **

We're periodically asked what's happened to the various CU magazines that
have appeared over the years. Many were short-lived, others are still
going. We can't list them all, but here's a list of the most prominent:

2600 MAGAZINE: Probably the best of its kind, 2600 is still going strong.
2600 MAGAZINE is the primary source of information into the worldwide
hacking scene. From information on the inner workings of phone companies to
the latest security breaches on computer operating systems to the abuse of
technology BY the authorities, 2600 is a vital tool for anyone who wants to
know what is REALLY going on. Written by hackers for hackers and anyone who
wants to learn a thing or two.

Subscriptions are $18 US per year in U.S. and Canada for individuals; $45
for corporations and institutions; $30 individuals overseas; $65
corporations/institutions overseas. Back issues are available from 1984 for
$25 per year, $30 per year overseas.

The address of 2600 MAGAZINE is:  2600, PO Box 752, Middle Island, NY
11953.  Telephone:  (516) 751-2600, FAX (516) 751-2608.

------------

TAP: TAP, too, is still going. It's "anarchist" thrust seems to have
mellowed, but it is still a fine source of information.  Copies are
available by sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope (or on some blurbs
just a stamp) to:
  TAP P.O. Box 20264 Louisville, KY  40220

------------

PHRACK: Begun in November, 1986, PHRACK was the primary phreak/hacker
magazine. It was more than just a technical journal.  Its profiles, world
news, and occasional pieces of satirical fiction made it the premier outlet
of its kind. Those who see it only as a primer for hacking have obviously
failed to read the entire work, and its "world news" alone was worth a
download. Thirty issues were put out before the January, 1990, indictment
of one of the co-editors, but it has since been resurrected (*NOT* by the
original editors) and PHRACK 31 appeared in late May, '90.

------------

PIRATE: Although only five issues have appeared to date, PIRATE provided
the most sophisticated overview of what pirating is.  Apparently internal
disputes over whether it should be a broad-based journal or a "how to"
manual led to the original editors and contributors (who favored discussing
broad issues) leaving, and to our knowledge, #5 is the latest, and perhaps
last.

-----------

ATI: Anarchist Times, Inc., appears periodically. It is a cross between
PHRACK and TAP, and perhaps the most politically oriented of any of the
magazines. ATI can be downloaded from most good boards or from The Red
Board, its home base. To date, 48 issues have appeared.

-----------

SYNDICATE REPORTS: The Sensei are apparently still putting this out, and it
is available on the better boards. It should be added to our archives
within the next few weeks.

----------

P/Hun: A technical/anarchist type journal, P/Hun is a primer of sorts.
Although lacking the broad coverage of PHRACK, it provides an interesting
document for those interested in understanding this aspect of the CU. Issue
#5 appeared in May, '90.

-----------

LoD/H Technical Journal: The title is obvious. Only three issues appeared
(despite a typo in an earlier CuD). Issue #4 was aborted because of the
raids. It can be found on most CU boards.

---------

Other groups have put out editions. PTL's cracking manual, an ambitious
book-length primer on cracking tips, was intended to be followed by others,
but to our knowledge none have appeared.  INC puts out an occasional
newsletter, most recently in a rather glitzy, but fun, .exe format.
"Hackers R Us" intended to publish a magazine, but we have seen nothing
after the initial issues.  Cybertek (not the original) focuses on what its
name implies.  Cybertek is available at Trash American Style, Milltown Rd.,
Danbury CT.  The second issue should have appeared by now.  Cult of the
Dead Cow (CDC) blurbs appear periodically, but the contents are usually of
little interest to any but a small group of dedicated heavy metal loving
anarchists. There are many, many others, but these seem to be the most
popular and widely disseminated.

--------------

Two Electronic mail digests also provide occasional, but limited, debates
and commentary on CU-related issues:

RISKS:   RISKS@CSL.SRI.COM.bitnet
TELECOM DIGEST:   TELECOM@EECS.NWU.EDU.bitnet

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
