

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.05 (April 22, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------



***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.05 / File 5 of 5  ***
***************************************************************

Modem Errata

GO PLACIDLY among the line noise and baud rates, and remember, what boredom
there was before BBSing. As far as possible, do not COVET your neighbors
HST. Answer your Email CLEARLY and with out typos, even to the NERDS that
PESTER you, for they have SOMETHING to say even if you can't FIGURE out
what it is.  Avoid FEMALE impersonators in CHAT, for they are DANGEROUS to
your ego. If you compare yourself with OTHERS, you may consider SUICIDE;
for there is always someone more PROFICIENT in ZMODEM than  yourself. Label
your disks.

Keep  interested in  your  own  CAREER, however  humble; even after
staying up ALL night  downloading. Exercise caution in  your BUSINESS
affairs; because YOU  need the  MONEY to  pay your compu-Serve bill. But
let this not BLIND you to what enjoyment there is on your  LOCAL bbs;many
persons  strive  for the MOST recent shareware and UPLOADS get you more
TIME on line.  Be yourself Especially, do not LIE  about your  AGE  or
LOOKS  when responding to "Sexlady".  Do not post messages in CAPS. Neither
be cynical about DONATIONS to  the SYSOP; for in  the face of all  REALITY,
he needs the MONEY for the PHONE lines. BEWARE of VIRUSES.  Take kindly the
councel of  Phil Katz  and Chuck Forsberg, gracefully  ADMITTING that they
KNOW more than you  will ever LEARN. Nuture  strength of  spirit to shield
you from SUDDEN hard disk crashs. But do not DISTRESS yourself with
NEEDLESS worry. Many  FEARS are born of  FATIQUE  from being connected  ALL
night to  ExecPC.  Register your  shareware.  You are a  CHILD of the
universe, you have a  RIGHT to buy a 9600 V-Series US ROBOTIC Modem. And
wether or not it is CLEAR to you, the communication  program IS
understandable. READ THE DOCS.  Therefore be at PEACE with the SYSOP, no
matter  what  a JERK he is, and what ever  your BBS  plans may be, take
your  WIFE  out to dinner occasionally.  With all its BAD documentation,
HIGH registration fees and  aborted  downloads, it is still  better  than
PAYING for commercial software. Be  CHEERFUL. Strive  to PAY your phone
bill.

                     Written by Tom Scott
             Published in telecomputing Magazine.
         Copied by John Wilson Sysop of SER/MAX!! BBS

                      Phone 602-938-0921


=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                           ** END CuD #1.05 **                              +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
