

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.00 (March 28, 1990)  **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
===================================================
===  Computer Underground Digest - File 3 of 5  ===
===================================================

There has been some debate about the use of "handles" (or "aliases") in the
BBS world. A few commentators have questioned their appropriateness, and there
seems to be a tendency for government law enforcement agents to interpret the
use of handles as a sign of "conspiracy" or "hiding intents."

The use of handles to disguise identity has a long and honorable tradition in
the U.S. It was Publius, after all (the "handle" of those notorious
subversives and 18th century deviants John Jay, James Madison, and Alexander
Hamilton) who wrote THE FEDERALIST PAPERS, the basis of our Constitution.

In the BBS world, handles provide not only a sense of anonymity, but serve
also as a symbolic identity. In a current research project, we find that for
serious BBS hobbyists, handles encapsulate an ethos reflected by a fictional
(usually science fiction) hero, a literary genre, music or media characters,
or public figures.  Handles connote particular cultural meanings, and these
meanings can be "read off" as a short hand summary of the character,
interests, or political ideology of the user.

The anonymity provided by handles serves several purposes.  First, it allows
the user, for better or worse, a sense of freedom to express ideas that might
otherwise subject him/her to ridicule. Second, analysis of BBS message logs
suggests that women, especially, feel freer to participate in discussions
without fear of gender games that might occur in face-to-face interaction.
Third, concealing one's identity provides limited freedom from kooks,
merchandise hucksters, and other snoopers. In a society in which making,
maintaining, and disseminating lists is common place, protecting one's
identity hardly seems unreasonable.

There is a fourth reason why handles are increasingly necessary.  As Gordon
Meyer cogently suggested in his recent comment, prosecutors are not unwilling
to confiscate e-mail, BBS message logs, or other "evidence" of identity.
These, in turn, are easily used to obtain information on innocent parties. To
those who have continually argued, or who actually believe, the federal agents
"know what they're doing," or are are too "professional" to abuse their
powers, I remind you of the witch hunts against "subversives" who opposed the
Viet Nam war, the FBI's COINTEL-PRO, and other gross abuses of power in recent
years. Attorney Gerry Spence is currently defending Friends of the Earth
against a "set-up" by federal agents that, unfortunately for the agents, was
captured on tape. It was, after all, the FBI who attempted to coerce Martin
Luther King to commit suicide! There is voluminous literature, including the
Church Committee's Report in the 1970s, and other research (including my own)
that documents these abuses. In short, despite protections, our enforcement
agents have a rather sorry record of following the law to enforce the law (see
the corpus of Gary Marx's work for further documentation).

Especially at a time when laws related to computer technology are vague,
inconsistent, occasionally Draconian, and not yet tested in court, and when
one's computer system can be confiscated on mere suspicion, and when a BBS can
be threatened by the FBI or Secret Service (as the sysop of the world's
largest BBS was) merely for posting LICIT hacker-type text files, a chilling
affect occurs that stifles not only free speech, but free revelation of
identity.  I used my real name in corresponding with the PHRACK folk at the
University of Missouri, and my name, documents, and other information--none
illicit--is now in the hands of federal prosecutors. Call it paranoia, but
from past experiences with federal agents, I have no confidence that they will
abide by rules of honor in using this information.

There are two ironies associated with the use of handles. First, those who use
them are generally sufficiently open to either self-identity when sufficient
trust has been built, or to provide enough identifying information that
identities can be determined.  Second, and more important, in a "free" society
built around open and unconstrained information flow, forces operate to
restrict openness. Therefore, to be open requires concealment.  Rather than
grip about the use of handles, doesn't it make more sense to examine the
factors that impel their use?


Jim Thomas
Sociology/Criminal Justice
Northern Illinois University
DeKalb, IL (60115)      (815) 753-6438

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
