

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.13 (June 12, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------

***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.13 / File 2 of 5  ***
***************************************************************


                    * * * A Hacker's Perspective * * *


                  ...insights into Operation Sun Devil...

                         ...from the OTHER side...

                            by Johnny Yonderboy


    A long time ago, in a land far, far away, hacking and phreaking were
safe, relatively painless hobbies to get into.  People did not have major
law enforcement agencies hunting them down...huge bureaus weren't devoted
to the eradication of this crime.  When caught, the usual punishment was to
simply be billed for the act that you perpetrated.  Even myself, when I was
busted for illegally using AT&T credit cards, only received a stiff bill.
When they did prosecute further, the sentencing was designed to punish you
for your deviance, but also commended you on your cleverness.

    That was a long time ago, and I came in on the tail end of the Golden
Age of Phreaking/Hacking.  Phreaking was easy, and hacking was young.
Those who could hack in those days were also those who got the better jobs.
Those who couldn't, phreaked.  And those who didn't fool around with that
"illegal nonsense" wrote bulletin board software.  Life was simple, and
social divisions were even moreso.

    Today, however, things are quite different.

    An average bulletin board today can expect to be visited by a major law
enforcement agency (the FBI, the SS) about once a year.  Most of the time,
you won't even know who is intruding upon your sacred privacy.  These
visits are standard practice to be expected on the elite boards - a status
symbol, if you will.  But to a normal user, this is terrifying.  And among
non-computer users, this type of practice is totally unheard of.  You might
scoff, but consider this - say you were a member of the NRA, and you had
weekly meetings (if indeed the NRA has weekly meetings).  Suppose a federal
agent started sitting in at your meetings, looking for illegal activity.
Not participating, not speaking, but just watching.  Would the NRA stand
for it?  Not just no, but HELL NO!  But as members (even legitimate ones)
of the computer-using community, we are supposed to accept this, as blindly
and complacently as we accept income tax.  Sure, there is a law being
broken on certain boards, but what about those boards that are legitimate?
Or, what about the times on elite boards that the conversation is centered
around something besides illegal matters?  Are we to always accept these
KGB-like raids upon our homes as well?  Or how about the seizure of our
personal property?  Which, notably, there is no guarantee of it's return if
you are proven innocent.  If we accept these things, (i.e. surveillance,
raids, seizures, etc.) how much farther will we let them go before we have
to put them in check?

    Indeed, it is easy to state that what hackers are doing mandates this
type of personal infringement.  But by all definitions of "personal
rights", the actions taken by the involved law enforcement agencies in
Operation Sun Devil go beyond what is democratic and free, and begins to
step into the formation of a police state.  The distribution of information
is heavily controlled in Communist Russia.  As they take steps towards
democracy with Glasnost, are we also to take steps towards totalitarianism?

    The media used to play us up to be high-tech folk heroes.  With this
new computer-phobia on the rise, we are the electronic mafia.  We, the
Computer Underground, have no say over this - it has happened.  But what
are we, really?  Are we pranksters, attacking in the middle of the night to
scrawl obscenities in email?  Sure, this has happened, and a lot of damage
has been done both to victim computers as well as to the reputation of the
Computer Underground as a whole.  Are we high-tech hooligans burglarizing
systems for their valuable data, to sell to the highest bidder?  The
infamous E911 document which was stolen is proof of that.  Did the involved
parties sell that material?  Indeed not.  They were going to distribute
that information to the general public.  Are we political subversives
trying to overthrow the government?  Indeed not.  While some of us may have
radical political ideas, none of us get tied up in outside government for
any reason beyond what effects us here (sorry for the broad
generalization...some of us ARE political subversives...).  So, what
exactly are we trying to do?

    To go further.  To stay online longer.  To do more.  Not to be able to
destroy more, but to simply be able to do more on the national networks.
The end goal of all this hacking, cracking and phreaking is to be able to
exchange information with people all over the world.  This is not always
economically feasible, so illegal methods have to be employed.  How many of
YOU can say that you would go to any limits to achieve something that you
wanted?  Is this "ambition" a bad thing?  Indeed not.

    Laying judgements down on us doesn't solve a thing.  Saying that you
don't agree with what we do, but you don't like what is being done to us is
supportive, but you have to make your own judgements in the long run
anyhow.  If you have never done it, then you will never be able to
understand why we do this.

   This should about wrap up what I have to say.  If you have any comments
or such, then please mail them to the editors here at CuD.



             -=* Keep the flames burning,

                  AND DON'T LET PHREAKING/HACKING DIE!!! *=-



                     ...  Johnny Yonderboy ...

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
