

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.00 (March 28, 1990)  **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------

===================================================
===  Computer Underground Digest - File 5 of 5  ===
===================================================

------------
This press release was attacthed to the indictment. We reprint it here to
present the federal side of the case.  It originally appeared in PIRATE
Magazine. We have checked the text against the original for accuracy.
-----------------

                             INFORMATION RELEASE

FROM: U.S. Department of Justice
DATE: February 6, 1990


IRA H. RAPHAELSON, United States Attorney for the Northern District of
Illinois, and PATRICK T. McDONNELL, Special Agent In Charge of the United
States Secret Service in Chicago, today announced the indictment of Robert J.
Riggs, 20, of %address deleted%, and Craig M. Neidorf, 19 %address deleted%,
on charges that between December, 1988 and February, 1989 they entered into a
scheme to steal and publish to other hackers highly proprietary and sensitive
information about the operation of Bell South's Enhanced 911 emergency
communication system. The seven count indictment charges Riggs and Neidorf with
Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property, Wire Fraud and Violations of the
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986.

Specifically, the indictment charges that Riggs, also known as "Robert
Johnson" and "The Prophet", stole a copy of Bell South's highly proprietary
and closely held computer program that controlled and maintained the E911
system. Bell South's E911 system controls emergency calls to the police, fire,
ambulance and emergency services in municipalities of the nine state region
served by Bell South; Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky,
Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Florida.  The indictment alleges
that in December 1988 Riggs stole the E911 data valued at $79,449.00 by using
a computer outside the telephone company to call into the telephone company
computer in which the computer file was stored. The indictment charges that
Riggs then transferred the E911 data to a computer bulleting board in
Lockport, Illinois from which Neidorf, also known as "Knight Lightning", down
loaded it for publication in a computer hacker publication known as "PHRACK."
The indictment charges that Riggs was a member of a closely knit group of
computer hackers known as the Legion of Doom whose members are involved in
numerous illegal activities including:

   *Disrupting telephone service by entering the telephone
    companies switches (which are computers) and changing
    the routing of telephone calls.
   *Stealing computer data from individuals and companies.
   *Stealing and modifying individual credit histories.
   *Fraudulently obtaining money and property from companies
    by altering information in their computers.
   *Disseminating information about attacking computers to other
    computer hackers in an effort to shift the focus of law
    enforcement agencies to those other hackers and away from the
    Legion of Doom.

The indictment charges that as part of their fraud scheme Riggs and Neidorf
disclosed the stolen information %reportedly PHRACK #24-eds.% about the
operation of the enhanced 911 system to other computer hackers so that they
could unlawfully access the E911 system and potentially disrupt or halt other
911 service in the United States.

If convicted on all counts of the indictment Riggs faces a maximum possible
prison sentence of 32 years and a maximum possible fine of $222,000.00; and
Neidorf faces a maximum possible prison sentence of 31 years and a maximum
possible fine $122,000.000.

In announcing the return of the indictment, Mr. Raphaelson noted that the
allegations of the indictment have far reaching implications for the health
and welfare of individuals in the United States who rely on their telephones
as a lifeline to the outside world.  Mr. Raphaelson stated, "People who invade
our telecommunications and related computer systems for profit or personal
amusement create immediate and serious consequences for the public at large.
No one should be made to suffer loss of life or severe injury as a result of
hackers who have compromised emergency networks. The telecommunications
industry and law enforcement community have become attentive to these crimes
and those who choose to use their intelligence and talent to disrupt these
vital networks will find themselves vigorously prosecuted."

Raphaelson stated that the indictment in Chicago and a companion indictment in
Atlanta are the initial results of a year long investigation by agents of the
United States Secret Service in Chicago, Atlanta, Indianapolis, New York, St.
Louis and Kansas City. Raphaelson further noted that pursuant to Court Orders,
technical and expert assistance was provided to the United States Secret
Service by telecommunication companies including Bell South and its
subsidiaries, Southwestern Bell, NYNEX (New York), and Bellcore. Raphaelson
particularly praised the actions of Bell South for its proactive position in
bringing their intrusion problems to the attention of law enforcement
officials and for its formation of an Intrusion Task Force to analyze and
respond to the intrusions noted in the Chicago and Atlanta indictments.

Assistant United States Attorney William J. Cook, who heads the Computer Fraud
and Abuse Task Force, and Assistant United States Attorney Colleen D. Coughlin
presented the case to the federal grand jury and will be trying the case in
the United States District Court in Chicago.

Members of the public are reminded that the indictment is only a charge and is
not evidence of guilt. The defendants are entitled to a fair trial at which
time it will be the government's burden to prove their guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt.

                               ***   END   ***


=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=
! 
Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
