

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.12 (June 10, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------


***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.12 / File 4 of 5  ***
***************************************************************

FROM:  TELECOM Digest, V10, #418  (by Pat Townson)

--------------------------------------


Date: Thu, 7 Jun 90 0:21:34 CDT
From: TELECOM Moderator <telecom@eecs.nwu.edu>
Subject: Crackers, Kapor and Len Rose


I have been deliberating holding messages on Kapor and the cracker
situation which have arrived this week. Thursday evening there will be at
least two special issues devoted to this topic, and I will be picking
several messages to include. I was going to have one special issue, and
that would have accomodated only a few letters. A second issue will allow
me to include a couple lengthy replies. Because the topic is starting to
stray far away from telecom and into areas of the law and computer
security, etc, this will be the last batch I can print. Several of these
items Thursday night will be replies to me, which is the main reason I am
running them ... and I won't even be able to include all of them, so heavy
is the flow.

Late Tuesday night, David Tamkin and I had a chance to speak at length with
someone close to the scene involving Len Rose. Some things were off the
record, at the request of Mr.  Rose's attorney, and I agreed to honor that
request.

Apparently the Secret Service seized *every single electronic item* in his
household -- not just his computers. I am told they even took away a box
containing his Army medals, some family pictures, and similar.  It is my
understanding his attorney has filed a motion in court to force the Secret
Service to return at least *some* of his computer equipment, since without
any of it, he is unable to work for any of his clients at all without at
least one modem and computer.

I am told the Secret Service broke down some doors to a storage area in the
basement rather than simply have him unlock the area with a key. I am told
further that he was advised he could pick up his fax machine (which had
been seized, along with boxes and boxes of technical books, etc), but that
when he did so, he was instead arrested and held for several hours in the
County Jail there.

Mr. Rose believes he will be found innocent of charges (rephrased) that he
was the 'leader of the Legion of Doom', and that he had broken into
'numerous computers over the years'.

I invited Mr. Rose and/or his attorney to issue a detailed statement to the
Digest, and promised that upon receipt it would be run promptly. I don't
think such a statement will be coming any time soon since his attorney has
pretty much ordered him to be silent on the matter until the trial.

If the things he says about the Secret Service raid on his home are
determined to be factual, then combined with complaints of the same nature
where Steve Jackson Games is concerned I would have to say it seems to me
the Secret Service might have been a bit less zealous.

The revelations in the weeks and months ahead should be very interesting.
One of the items I will include in the special issues on Thursday night is
the report which appeared in the %Baltimore Sun% last weekend. This case
seems to get more complicated every day.


PT

------------------------------End of TELECOM Digest V10 #418

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
