

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.07 (May  5, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet
FTP SITE:     RJKRAUSE@SUNRISE.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------
Just Say "Whaa.....???"
--------------

(Eds Note: We did not make this up, nor is the press release dated April 1st)

Press Release:
Jeff Mackler Communications
15301 Ventura Blvd
Suite 300
Sherman Oaks, CA 91403-3102
(818) 783-1688 (voice)
(818) 783-6516 (FAX)

                TAITO'S 'WRATH OF THE BLACK MANTA' DELIVERS
                         STRONG ANTI-DRUG MESSAGE


(LOS ANGELES, CA) APRIL 12 --  With the popularity of video games
continuing to increase at a dizzying pace, one software publishing company
believes it has an added responsibility to the consumer public.  Taito
Software, Inc., a major creator of video game software for the Nintendo
Entertainment System, has taken up the lance in the fight against drugs and
international terrorism by publishing the hard-hitting "Wrath of the Black
Manta," which brings a strong anti-drug, anti-terrorism message directly
into the home.

Alan Fezer, President of Taito said, "Taito has the opportunity to deliver
a message to today's youth. Video games have a strong impact on the playing
public.  In general, they are both entertained and educated by the message
of the game.  Taito has made the decision to make it's anti-drug message
loud and clear."

"Wrath of the Black manta" comes wrapped in state-of-the-art technology
including advanced graphics, sound effects and music.  This provides a
greater dimension to the game and allows players of this five-level,
martial arts, action/adventure video to participate in an exciting drama.
The stakes are as high as they are in real life.

The player assumes the role of the "Black Manta," and in the process a
student-master relationship develops, imbuing a human-like quality to the
play of the game.  As the player acquires greater skill through having to
develop memory and reading skills, he/she moves up to a higher and more
difficult level of play.

In describing a psychological process called "mastery," achieving simulated
victory in a fantasy situation over an actual conflict, such as the
terrorism of international drug cartels, a player is more apt to believe
that that goal is obtainable in real life.

Taito heightens player involvement and positive reinforcement by making
"Wrath of the Black manta" interactive.  The story's dialogue is shown
simultaneously in script, running along the bottom of the screen at key
intervals.  In addition, the player receives a series of cryptic messages,
including spoken clues from the treacherous thugs and the kidnap victims.
Throughout the game, the Master strongly reinforces the drug themes,
reminding the player to never use drugs.

The action, which takes place in New York, Tokyo and Rio de Janeiro,
provides for character development as the player's abilities increase.  In
the process, he challenges the international gang of formidable foes as he
tracks down the ruthless drug lord, El Toro, eventually succeeding in the
achieving a single-handed victory over drugs and terrorism.  "Black Manta"
maintains a continuous story line, level by level, rather than a simple
recapping of the narrative.  As

"Black Manta," the player must become a master of the four groups of Ninpo
Arts, with such exotic powers as the Paralyzing Fire Rain, the Veil of
Invisibility, and spider-like Underground Travel.  With each new level the
player reaches, the added Ninpo Arts and skills he masters fuse to give him
the added strength and proficiencies (sic) to achieve the final result -
destruction of El Toro and his powerful, parasitic (sic) drug cartel.  The
characterization of a high-concept foe creates much more excitement in play
than does a series of anonymous enemies.  The stakes in "Black manta" are
not simply over turf, but over the insidious power welded by drug lords.

Although many "bad guys" challenge the "Black Manta's" skills (Voodoo
Warriors, Robot Guards, and the monstrous "Tiny"), the action culminates in
a final show-down with El Toro, the mastermind of DRAT (Drug Runners and
Terrorists).

The game was recently accorded high honor by GAME PLAYER'S NINTENDO GUIDE,
which proclaimed that, 'Superior graphics and animation, together with a
strong story line, make "Wrath of the Black Manta' a strong contender for
the best martial arts game around."

NINTENDO POWER (March/April 1990) also gave "The Wrath of the Black Manta"
high marks, with a 4 our of a possible 5 rating for graphics and sound, 3.5
out of 4 on play control, 4 out of 5 on challenge, and 4 out of 5 on
theme/fun.  To introduce "Wrath of the Black Manta" to the public, Taito
has established the "Black Manta Sweepstakes" in which the Grand
Prize-winner will earn the right to a $5,000 shopping spree in the store of
their choice.  Game players enter by dialing 1-800-777-2WIN.

Taito Software Inc develops and markets entertainment software for the
consumer market.  The company is the North American home entertainment
subsidiary of $500-million Taito Corp., based in Tokyo, the world's largest
arcade game manufacturer.  Founded in April 1988, Taito Software is
committed to providing superior products the incorporate high production
values and technological innovation.

                        # # #

CONTACT:  Gene Lesser                   Anita Deiter
    Jeff Mackler                  Taito Software, Inc
    Jeff Mackler Communications   (604)984-3344
    818/783-1688

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
