

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.09 (May 16, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------


***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.09 / File 4 of 6  ***
***************************************************************

           Assistant Director Garry M. Jenkins' Prepared Remarks

                            Operation Sun Devil


Today, the Secret Service is sending a clear message to those computer
hackers who have decided to violate the laws of this nation in the mistaken
belief that they can successfully avoid detection by hiding behind the
relative anonymity of their computer terminals.

In 1984, Congress enacted the Comprehensive Crime Control Act which
prohibits, among other things, credit card fraud and computer fraud. Since
1984, the Secret Service has been aggressively enforcing these laws and has
made over 9,000 arrests nationwide.

Recently we have witnessed an alarming number of young people who, for a
variety of sociological and psychological reasons, have become attached to
their computers and are exploiting thier potential in a criminal manner.
Often, a progression of criminal activity occurs which involves
telecommunications fraud (free long distance phone calls), unauthorized
access to other computers (whether for profit, fascination, ego, or the
intellectual challenge), credit card fraud (cash advances and unauthorized
purchases of goods), and then move on to other destructive activities like
computer viruses.

Some computer abusers form close associations with other people having
similar interests. Underground groups have been formed for the purpose of
exchanging information relevant to their criminal activities. These groups
often communicate with each other through message systems between computers
called "bulletin boards."

Operation Sun Devil was an investigation of potential computer fraud
conducted over a two-year period with the use of sophisticated
investigative techniques.

This investigation exemplifies the commitment and extensive cooperation
between federal, state and local law enforcement agencies and private
governmental industries which have been targeted by computer criminals.

While state and local law enforcement agencies successfully investigate and
prosecute technological crimes in specific geographical locations, federal
intervention is clearly called for when the nature of these crimes becomes
interstate and international.

                                 (PAGE 1)

On May 8, 1990, over 150 Special Agents of the United States Secret
Service, teamed with numerous local and state law enforcement agencies,
served over two dozen search warrants in approximately fifteen (15) cities
across this nation.

Several arrests and searches were made during the investigation to protect
the public from impending dangers. In one situation, computer equipment
was seized after unauthorized invasion into a hospital computer.

Our experience shows that many computer hacker suspects are no longer
misguide teenagers mischievously playing games with their computers in
their bedrooms.  Some are now high tech computer operators using computers
to engage in unlawful conduct.

The losses to the american public in this case are expected to be
significant.  The Secret Service takes computer crime very seriously, and
we will continue to investigate aggressively those crimes which threaten
our nation's businesses and government services.

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
