

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.06 (April 27, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------


***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.06 / File 3 of 5  ***
***************************************************************

   ** STOP HACKING! IT'S NOT WORTH THE TROUBLE. FIND ANOTHER HOBBY! **"
                                                    (The Mentor)

On March 1, the Secret Service and other law enforcement officers in
Austin, Texas, raided the home of The Mentor and the offices of Steve
Jackson Games searching for evidence related to computer hacking.  As of
this writing (April 25), there have been no indictments brought against any
of the Austin group alleged by federal law enforcement officials to be
participants in the Legion of Doom. According to one inside source, "we are
just floating in limbo." Another close source indicated that none of the
equipment confiscated from The Mentor or Erik Bloodaxe has been returned.

Equipment confiscated from Steve Jackson games, producer of fantasy
role-playing adventure games, has also not been returned.  One source
inside SJG indicated that a few files have been returned, but that they had
lost all value or utility by the time they were returned.  An accurate and
balanced NEWSWEEK story ("The Hacker Dragnet," by John Schwartz, April 20,
1990: p. 50) indicated that:

    Jackson had to push back his deadlines for producing other
    games, cut back on his plans for new releases and lay off
    half of his staff. He puts the out-of-pocket losses at
    $25,000 and owes about $75,000 more.

One of those who had over $5,000 worth of equipment removed indicated that
he was losing over $1,000 a week in lost income by not being able to work
at home. Also confiscated were the graduate papers of his wife (stored on
the hard drive) and other files related to education.

There are unconfirmed rumors that federal officials have indicated action
will be taken within a month, but that this action could range from an
indictment to the return of the equipment with an apology.

At least two others in the Austin area had their equipment confiscated in
raids. A week earlier, one person who was "just in the wrong place at the
wrong time" lost over $30,000 worth of computer hardware, and another had
his equipment confiscated.

As for Knight Lightning's case in Chicago, A motion is  pending in Federal
Court..  The gov't has asked for a continuance.  No developments are
expected until mid to late May.  If anything happens we'll let folks know,
if rumours are floating around let us know so we can confirm/deny them.
The docket number for the case is:
90-CR-0070

One of the counts in the federal charges filed by William Cook, Assistant
United States Attorney William J. Cook contends that E911 material was
stolen and published in PHRACK which could have been used to disrupt
emergency services (see Schwartz's NEWSWEEK article and the indictment in
Cu-D #1.00). We have read and re-read the E911 material published in
PHRACK, and there is virtually nothing in it that reveals any sensitive
information of any kind about the E911 or any other system. The published
material is little more than definitions of terms, and is, by any
reasonable standard, totally worthless as a "how to" document. We have been
advised not to circulate the material for legal reasons, but if and when we
are advised that it is legally permissible, we will re-print it so others
can make an independent judgment.

We recommend John Schwartz's NEWSWEEK article. He nicely identifies the
danger of the current witch hunt for hackers, especially the LoD. As those
familiar with the computer underground know, the LoD is hardly a monolithic
fraternity of terrorists or "high tech street gangs," as Bill Cook once
called hackers. They were a loose group of people on communication with one
another largely for the purpose of sharing information. Contrary to media
and law enforcement reports, our own independent evidence from LoD members
or from alleged targets of their activities indicates that there was no
organized group effort to terrorize, extort, or to engage in any of the
felonious activities to which their critics allude.  It is our professional
judgment that the name has been symbolized for enforcement purposes, and
those associated with that name are being targeted regardless of whether
evidence exists of their wrong doing.


We agree with sysop Al Evans (quoted in NEWSWEEK, April 30: p. 50):

     Given a choice between hackers and police crackdowns,
     %Al Evans% knows which he prefers: "The threat of somebody
     knocking on my door at 5:30 in the morning is the one that
     makes ME worry."

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
