

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.13 (June 12, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------

***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.13 / File 3 of 5  ***
***************************************************************

-----------------
%The contributor of the following requested anonymity%
------------------


 Here is a interesting message I found posted in the Telecom newsgroup on
USENET today ([* are my comments *]:
********************************************************************

Subject: "Legion of Doom" Indictment Date: 30 May 90 16:42:21 GMT Sender:
news@accuvax.nwu.edu Organization: TELECOM Digest

Computer Consultant Could get 32 Years If Convicted of Source-Code Theft

Baltimore - A Middletown, Md., man faces as many as 32 years in prison and
nearly $1 million in fines if convicted of being involved in the "Legion of
Doom" nationwide group of Unix computer buffs now facing the wrath of
federal investigators.

[* I thought the LOD was a group interested in all types of computer
 operating systems....I guess now they are Unix gurus *]

The U.S. Attorney's Office here on May 15 announced the indictment of
Leonard Rose, 31, a computer consultant also known as "Terminus," on
charges that he stole Unix source code from AT&T and distributed two
"Trojan Horse" programs designed to allow for unauthorized access to
computer systems. Incidents occurred between May, 1988 and January, 1990,
according to the indictment.

The five-count indictment, handed down by a federal grand jury, charges
Rose with violations of interstate transportation laws and the federal
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Rose faces as many as 32 years in prison,
plus a maximum fine of $950,000.

He is the third person to be indicted who was accused of being connected
with the so-called Legion of Doom. Robert J. Riggs, a 21-year-old DeVry
Institute student from Decatur, Ga., and Craig M.  Neidorf, 19, a
University of Missouri student from Columbia, Mo., also have been indicted.

[* This is getting pretty ridiculous about Craig Neidorf being in the LOD,
   he was the editor of Phrack magazine. I guess since security and
   commercial types subscribed to Phrack, he is also part of there
   organizations.  Geeshh...I wonder how many groups the editors of CUD
   belong to also based on who their readers are...*]

Rose's indictment stemmed from a federal investigation that began in
Chicago and led investigators to Missouri and Maryland, assistant U.S.
Attorney David King said. While executing a search warrant in Missouri,
investigators uncovered evidence Rose was transporting stolen Unix 3.2
source code, King said. Investigators then obtained a warrant to search
Rose's computer system and found the stolen source code, King added.

He said the Trojan Horse programs were substitutes for a legitimate sign-in
or log-in program, with a separate shell for collecting user log-ins or
passwords.

[* The question is was he caught using those programs to acquire
   pass-words? Or is this an assumption by the government??? I guess
   writing or having specific public domain programs is against the law.*]

"Whoever substituted [the Trojan Horse program] could get passwords to use
the system any way he or she wanted to," King said.

The indictment was a result of a long-term investigation by the U.S. Secret
Service, and was issued one week after federal authorities raided computer
systems at 27 sites across the United States.  Investigators seized 23,000
computer disks from suspects accused of being responsible for more than $50
million in thefts and damages. The Secret Service at that time announced
that five people have been arrested in February in connection with the
investigation.

King said he was unaware if Rose indictment was related to the raids made
earlier this month.

"We don't just go out and investigate people because we want to throw them
in jail. We investigate them because they commit an offense.  The grand
jury was satisfied," King said.

[* I wonder how many copies (non-site licensed) of software exist in the
   State Office building (ie. Word Perfect, Lotus, etc.) or in the homes of
   the employees. That would be considered illegal. *]

The U.S. Attorney's Office said the investigation revealed individuals had
accessed computers belonging to federal research centers, schools and
private businesses. King would not name any of the victims involved.

Rose was associated with the Legion of Doom and operated his own computer
system known as Netsys, according to the indictment. His electronic mailing
address was Netsys!len, the document said.

The Legion, according to the indictment, gained fraudulent, unauthorized
access to computer systems for the purpose of stealing software; stole
proprietary source code and other information; disseminated information
about gaining illegal access, and made telephone calls at the expense of
other people.

 Well that is the latest in the Summer '90 busts. I just hope that everyone
arrested by the government receives as fair a deal that Robert Morris
received for his little prank.  Because I doubt Mr. Morris was given
special treatment because his dad works for the NSA...


=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
