

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.01 (March 31, 1990)  **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet
SUBSCRIBE TO: INTERNET:TK0JUT2@NIU.BITNET@UICVM.uic.edu

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------

***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.01 / File 3 of 4  ***
***************************************************************

An article in the AUSTIN-AMERICAN STATESMAN by Kyle Pope is perhaps the
most balanced news story to cover the Legion of Doom indictments and the
related confiscation of equipment at Steve Jackson Games in Austin. We had
intended to reprint the entire article.  However, when we called the
AUSTIN-AMERICAN STATESMAN (are there no "stateswomen," or is the A-AS still
a bastion of macho sexist swinery?), we were informed that on no account
would they allow the article to be distributed over the nets. When we asked
how much of the article they would allow us to extract, they told us that
we could excerpt *NONE* of it. Not even a single line?  "None of it!" Well,
perhaps the A-AS has contracts with other news services who sell
computerized versions of the story, but "None of it?" C'mon! "Fair use
doctrine" allows reasonable reproduction of a copyright article, and after
consulting with an attorney, we reproduce well under the accepted norm.
So, we can only assume that the A-AS, while to be commended on a fair
summary of events, as some very uptight anal-retentive types in the
managing editor's office who confuse company policy with Constitutional
protections!  The following is drawn from a variety of sources, but all
quotes come from:  "U.S. Computer Investigation Targets Austinites" by Kyle
Pope (%cr% Austin-American Statesman, March 17, 1990: Pp A-1, A-12).

The article summarizes the background of the Legion of Doom indictments
(see CuD, 1.00, files 4, 5). In the continuing investigation, federal
agents and Austin police appeared at the home of a Steve Jackson Employee,
greeting him with guns drawn at 6:30 a.m. They confiscated his equipment,
and also took a number of books and other documents, including the M.A.
thesis of CuD co-moderator Gordon Meyer. Why this document is considered
worthy of confiscation escapes us, unless academic research is now
considered subversive, and its possession evidence of evidence of criminal
mischief.  One of the concerns of federal agents was the Cyberpunk science
fiction work being written at Steve Jackon's. Influenced by science fiction
novel's such as William Gibson's NEUROMANCER and John Brunner's THE
SHOCKWAVE RIDER, Cyberpunk mixes science fiction, computer fantasy, and
alienation in futuristic techno-societies.  The A-AS interviewed one writer
who explained the need for realistic detail in the genre:

        Bruce Sterling, an Austin science fiction writer and one
        of the world's best-known Cyberpunk writers, said
        Jackson's game and its computer-related discussions are
        hardly unusual for the genre.

        "Cyberpunk is thriller fiction," Sterling said. "It deals
        to a great extent with the romance of crime in the same
        way that mysteries or techno-thrillers do."

        He said the detailed discussions in the Jackson games are
        what draws people to them.

        "That's the charm of simulation games," he said. "You're
        simulating something that's supposed to be accurate. If
        it's cooked up out of thin air, the people who play these
        games are going to lose interest."

        Jackson, though, said he has been told by Secret Service
        agents that they view the game as a user's guide to
        computer mischief.

        He said they made the comments when he went to the
        agency's Austin office in an unsuccessful attempt to
        reclaim some of his seized equipment.

        "As they were reading over it, they kept making outraged
        comments," Jackson said. "When they read it, they became
        very, very upset.

        "I said, 'This is science fiction.' They said, 'No. This
        is real.'" (A-AS, p. A-12).

In their zeal to obtain information about reproduction of an E911 training
document from a Georgia telecommunications company, federal agencies
confiscated printers, monitors, CPUs, files, and other equipment from
Jackson because of suspicion that one of his employees, Loyd Blankenship,
had contacts with Legion of Doom:

        Jackson's attorney said federal officials have told him
        that the 911 information pilfered from Bell South has
        surfaced on a computer bulletin board used at Steve
        Jackson games. But the information apparently has not
        been traced to a user.

        Jackson said that neither he nor any of his employees is
        a member of the Legion of Doom.

        Blankenship, however, did consult with the group in the
        course of researching and writing the Cyberpunk game,
        Jackson said.  Further, the group is listed in the game's
        acknowledgments for its aid in providing technical
        information used in Cyberpunk (A-AS, p. A-12).

----------------------

These confiscations raise a number of issues. First, it seems that any of
us can have our equipment, and therefore our livelihoods, threatened by any
connection law enforcement officials make between an offense and an alleged
possessor of information.

Second, as of this writing (March 30), to our knowledge none of those being
investigated in this incident has been indicted.  Only the equipment has
been arrested.  This, to us, suggests the frightening spectre of
confiscation of the equipment of innocent people and disruption of lives.
The A-AS article indicated that the confiscation is having a devastating
impact on the economic fortunes of Steve Jackson Games.

Third, it appears that laws originally intended to fight drugs and
organized crime now are being used to thwart the "dreaded computer
underground." Confiscation of any personal property that creative agents
can claim "good faith" potential relationship to either an offense or to
information about an offense, can be confiscated, including an M.A. thesis
or a draft of a novel in progress. In addition, if, in their search, agents
happen upon a few seeds of marijuana, they can, under federal anti-drug
law, incarcerate the searchee without bail.

Gary Marx has argued that we lose our freedoms not with a sweeping
crackdown, but gradually. Laws originally intended to fight one "menace"
now are being applied to another. This "other" menace is, we argue, largely
a creation of media hysteria, law enforcement ignorance of the nature of
the computer underground, and a complete failure to recognize the need to
balance protection of the public commonweal with protections of civil
liberties.

In a recent government publication (NIJ REPORTS, Jan/Feb '90, pp 2-10), the
authors lump software piracy in the same category as theft of computer
chips, computers, or trade secrets.  In this classification, it seems that
stealing a new IBM 486 and giving a copy of Norton Utilities to a friend
are identical!  Uploading that pirated copy from New York to a BBS in
Atlanta would, therefore, constitute a federal offense that subjects the
"felon" to the full weight of federal prosecution.

Our point is that, in a rapidly changing techno-world, laws are being used
in a way perhaps appropriate for addressing such predatory crimes as
listed in the FBI's Uniform Crime Reports, but they hardly address the
problems of perceived computer abuse, real or imagined. The use of laws
intended to combat one type of unacceptable behavior, such as racketeering
or drug abuse, hardly seem appropriate to their current use by federal
agents to combat computerists. Disrespect for law begins with its
oppressive misuse, and we suggest that, ultimately, the apparent attempt of
federal agents and prosecutors to define a social menace, and then make
their careers saving the world from it, will subvert the respect for and
rule of law in the long run.

A final note to the A-AS:
It is within an author's legal rights to write a number of DIFFERENT
stories, excerpting different parts of a news article in each, and
ultimately reprint, legally, the entire story. We are not petty enough to
do so, but we find it somewhat ironic that a company whose existence
derives from a free press so arrogantly responses to a legitimate request
to reprint with a categorical statement that *NOTHING* can be reprinted. Is
there something wrong with this picture, or did your managing editor just
have a bad day? We will print a reply if you wish to make one.

Jim Thomas (CuD co-moderator)

=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
