

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
               ***  Volume 1, Issue #1.14 (June 14, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer
REPLY TO:     TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
--------------------------------------------------------------------


***************************************************************
***  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.14 / File 3 of 5  ***
***************************************************************

                 *****************************************
                 PHRACK/KNIGHT LIGHTNING INDICTMENT UPDATE
                 *****************************************

On June 12, 1990 Craig Neidorf (aka "Knight Lightning") was arraigned on
charges of Wire Fraud and Interstate Transportation of Stolen Merchandise.
This new indictment supersedes the charges that were filed against him a
few months ago.  Note that the violation of the Computer Fraud charge has
been dropped, with the wire fraud charges being added.  The interstate
transportation charge remains and is still related to his alleged receipt
of the e911 documentation.

The new Wire Fraud charges stem from 4 or 5 articles in past issues of
"Phrack Inc.".  A discussion of the specific articles named in the
indictment is found elsewhere in this issue of CuD.

Two additional changes are worth noting.  The "retail cost" of the Bell
South e911 documentation has been reduced from over $74K to $53K.
Evidently the initial estimate was incorrectly calculated.  Also, now that
the fraud charge has been dropped mandatory sentencing guidelines may no
longer require jail time should Niedorf be convicted.  (This is speculation
and has not been confirmed.)

A new trial date has been set for July 23 (possibly the 24th, our sources
were unsure of the exact date).  The trial is expected to last about one
week.  The government still plans to call 13 witnesses, some of which are
still unnamed (being listed as "a representative from Bell South, for
example).

As of this writing we have not been able to obtain a copy of the indictment
itself.  However, the information given here has been provided by those who
have seen copies of it.  There may be some errors, which will be corrected
once we can compare our synopsis to the actual document.  We were able to
obtain a copy of the first indictment with relatively little hassle,
however we have been told by both the US Attorney's office and the US
Secret Service that this time we'll have to pick up a copy in person
(which, to be fair, is standard operating procedure but it is a requirement
that we did not anticipate).  We will do so as soon as an opportunity to
visit downtown Chicago arises.  In the meantime if any CuD readers have a
copy of the new indictment we would appreciate you forwarding a copy to us.

As always we will continue to provide you with information as it becomes
available.

GRM 6/13/90

Related rumours and speculation: Sources indicate that much of the material
being introduced as evidence by the Government has been sealed by the
court.  Additionally some people connected with the case are under a court
order not to discuss certain aspects of it prior to the trial. The full
reasoning behind this, and exactly what types of material it covers, is
unknown at this time.  This propensity to keep the details out of public
scrutiny has led to speculation (from different sources) that the trial
itself may take place behind closed doors.


=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
+                               END THIS FILE                                +
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+===+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
