
------------------------------

From:      Various Contributors
Subject:   The CU in the news
Date:      28 July, 1990

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.06: File 5 of 5: The CU in the News                  ***
********************************************************************

(Washington, DC)--CONGRESS TO APPROVE BILL BANNING SOFTWARE RENTALS

The Senate  and the House Judiciary Committee have passed bills that will
allow software publishers to prevent  computer stores  and businesses from
renting out their software.  Rep. Mike Synar of Oklahoma (a democrat) has
sponsored the House's Bill, and Congress is expected to  pass his bill (or
the Senate's proposal) before October.

Mike Synar's  bill is  aimed at  preventing video rental stores from
renting microcomputer  software,  since  software  pirates  who  don't own
modems can  easily obtain commercial software through them.  Interestingly
enough, the bill does  NOT prevent  video rental  stores from  renting out
Nintendo Game Cartridges, since Nintendo games can't be copied by software
pirates.  It seems that Nintendo earns revenue from cartridge sales, since
they manufacture ALL Nintendo game cartridges....

(reprinted with permission from:
STReport              "Your Independent News Source"    September 28, 1990
16/32bit Magazine           copyright  1990                  No.6.39

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

From: Computerworld, September 24, 1990, p. 122, Inside Lines:

"And a Merry Christmas to All?"

An almost identical version of the IBM Christmas virus that infected
thousands of computers on IBM's internal mail in December 1987 has
reportedly been posted on the Bitnet network.  The virus puts a tree and
seasonal greeting message on the screen of infected computers and is known
to replicate wildly, shutting down computers.  No word of any infections,
however.  Bitnet connects computers at more than 200 universities as well
as to the Earn network in Europe, the entry point of the original virus.
IBM was forced to shut down its 350,000-terminal network for nearly three
days to get rid of the virus.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

>From the JOHNSON CITY PRESS, Wednesday, October 3, 1990

HACKER ALTERING RECORDED PHONE MESSAGES

By Leslie Loyd
Associated Press Writer

KINGSPORT, TN - A computer hacker is tapping into voice mail telephone
messages and replacing them with explicit sexual descriptions, a telephone
company spokesman said Tuesday.

Phil Timp, a spokesman for United Telephone Co., said the company has
received 70 complaints.

"All of the sudden in the last two weeks, we've had a barrage of
complaints," Timp said.  "What the motive is we don't know... Obviously
they're very disturbed."

The FBI and Kingsport police were called in Tuesday to investigate.

... (portion omitted describing voice mail) ...

"(Subscribers) are checking their messages and hearing this," Timp said.
"Imagine if your mother called."

He said subscribers frequently use the last four digits of their telephone
number as their access code because it is easy to remember.  But that also
makes the code easy to break.  Timp said subscribers should check messages
and change access code frequently.

Timp said someone is using a computer to tap into the system and figure out
the codes.

"It's a knowledgeable user,"  Timp said.

He said he doesn't know if any subscribers have canceled because of the
explicit messages.

"We're doing everything we can to make sure these people can continue their
voice mail service," Timp said.

"It's the first time we've had a problem to this degree," he said.  The
company began offering the service two years ago and has had a few isolated
incidents like this.

(Submitted by Paul Schmidt)

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The Ithaca Journal
Tuesday September 25, 1990   (reprinted by permission)

"IHS student unleashes computer viruses"

by Chris Swingle
Journal Staff

A 16-year-old Ithaca High School student created computer viruses that
spread during the summer to dozens of Macintosh personal computers in
Ithaca, officials reported Monday.

Computers at Ithaca High, BAKA Computers Inc. and Cornell University were
affected, but the problems are now believed solved.  The viruses took
hundreds -- or even thousands -- of work hours to fix, one official
estimated.

"It can be described as a nuisance," said Ted Palmer, a senior investigator
with the New York State Police in Cortland who specializes in computer
crime investigations.

The Ithaca High School teenager, whose name wasn't released, isn't being
prosecuted because he cooperated and agreed to help police in future
investigations, Palmer said.

Computer viruses are miniature programs that can replicate and spread from
one computer to another, much as microorganism do.  These viruses can wreak
havoc -- tying up computer's memory, interrupting normal operations,
causing errors or even destroying data.

The IHS case comes almost two years after a Cornell University graduate
student drew national attention with a similar type of rogue program called
a "worm," which jammed some 6,000 government, military and university
computers.

Robert T. Morris Jr. was convicted on federal charges of computer tampering
in January, and he was sentenced to 400 hours of community service and
fined $10,000.

This summer's two local viruses, which additionally had variations, didn't
destroy any information, but did spread quickly from disk to disk.  The
virus "infected" a new computer by moving into the hard disk core of the
computer, then hopping onto the next disk that was put in the computer.

"All that was necessary is that a disk be inserted, to be infected," said
Mark Anbinder, a technical consultant for BAKA.  "So it was a particularly
annoying one."

"I would describe it as serious in that it interferes with the computers'
operation," he added.

One virus was first discovered in May, and another strain appeared in
August, Anbinder said.

A police investigation started Aug. 22 and ended Sunday, Palmer said.
State police and Cornell public safety investigators worked with virus
experts to analyze the computer bug and trace its origin.  In the spring of
1988, Macintosh computers at Cornell were infected by a virus called Scores
that made the machines act increasingly erratically, then stop working
altogether.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IBM US News Bulletin
Dateline - September 18, 1990

IBM, MERIT AND MCI FORM NEW ORGANIZATION TO EXPAND NATIONAL COMPUTER
SUPERHIGHWAY

IBM, MCI Communications Corporation, and Merit, Inc., a consortium of eight
Michigan universities, has announced the establishment of Advanced Network
and Services, Inc. (ANS), a new company that will help propel high-speed
computer networking into the next century for the nation's research and
education communities.

The new not-for-profit organization will manage and operate the federally
funded National Science Foundation Network (NSFNET) backbone, under
subcontract to Merit, as well as provide a broad spectrum of networking
services to researchers and educators in universities, federal laboratories
and the private sector.  These services range from basic network monitoring
to complete networking connectivity and support.  ANS will begin to connect
additional educational, industrial and government institutions to the
nation's largest public computer superhighway at speed up to 45 megabits per
second.

ANS is being established to help build and expand current networking
capabilities to meet the skyrocketing demand by the nation's scientists,
engineers and academics for high-speed networking.

The goals of ANS are:

*  To assist in the expansion of the existing national network so that it
   broadly serves the research and education community.

*  To increase the speed and capability of the network, maintaining it at
   the leading edge of technology.

*  To provide the highest quality network and services in helping to advance
   research and education.

IBM and MCI are providing ANS with initial funding, as well as leading edge
technology.  Merit, Inc. will add its expertise in network operations,
engineering and planning, in addition to network information services.  IBM,
MCI and Merit have been partners in NSFNET since 1987.

Headquarters for ANS are in Elmsford, Ney York.
--
Dan Ehrlich <ehrlich@cs.psu.edu>/Voice: +1 814 863 1142/FAX: +1 814 865 3176

********************************************************************

------------------------------

                           **END OF CuD #2.06**
********************************************************************

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
