

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
              ***  Volume 2, Issue #2.19 (December 31, 1990)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer  (TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet)
ARCHIVISTS:   Bob Krause / Alex Smith / Bob Kusumoto
RESIDENT RAPMASTER:  Brendan Kehoe

USENET readers can currently receive CuD as alt.society.cu-digest.

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.  CuD material may be reprinted as long as the source is
cited.  Some authors, however, do copyright their material, and those
authors should be contacted for reprint permission.
It is assumed that non-personal mail to the moderators may be reprinted
unless otherwise specified. Readers are encouraged to submit reasoned
articles relating to the Computer Underground.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

------------------------------

From: Ed Hopper <ehopper@ehpcb.wlk.com>
Subject: Michigan Bell vs BBSs
Date: Mon, 31 Dec 90 23:49:03 CST
Organization: Ed Hopper's BBS - Houston, Texas 713-997-7575

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.19: File 4 of 7: Michigan Bell vs. BBSs              ***
********************************************************************

From: TELECOM Digest    Tue, 1 Jan 91 03:46:40 CST   Volume 11 : Issue 1

(Note: I am sending this on behalf of Bruce Wilson.)

From the FACTS BBS in Flint, Michigan, by way of the Vehicle City BBS in
Davison, Michigan:

On January 15, 1991, an administrative hearing will be held before the
Michigan Public Service Commission to discuss a complaint filed against
Michigan Bell Telephone Company.

Early this year, a private bulletin board in Grosse Point, called the
Variety and Spice BBS, was ordered to pay an increased charge for phone
service because it was discovered he was accepting donations for use of his
BBS.

This BBS ran on an IBM, and supports sixteen separate lines.  Although a
portion of the BBS was open to the public, most of the BBS (including an
"adult file" area, were restricted to those who sent a donation to the BBS.
The money collected didn't even come close to the actual cost of running
such a BBS.

Michigan Bell claims that placing any condition on the use of a BBS
constitutes a business, and that the sysop must pay a business rate for his
phone line, plus pay a $100 deposit for EACH LINE in use.  This means the
Variety and Spice sysop would have to pay a $1600 deposit, plus about $50
additional each month if he wanted to continue his BBS.

The sysop refused to pay this fee, so Michigan Bell disconnect his lines.
The sysop filed a complaint with the MPSC.  Until this case was heard, he
decided to re-install the phone lines (at a considerable cost to himself).

If Michigan Bell wins this case, they will require every BBS sysop to pay
business rates for each of their lines, if it is determined that the BBS is
accepting fees or donations.  The Variety and Spice sysop claims that MBT
considers requiring users to upload files or post messages (ie
upload/download ratios) the same as a donation, and will require the sysop
to upgrade his line to a business line whether money was exchanged or not.
However, in an interview I did in March, I talked to the chief spokesman of
MBT, who claimed that this was not the case.  Only if money is accepted
will MBT demand the sysop pay business rate.

The important thing here is that AT THIS TIME, these are the rules that MBT
believes is in the tariff.  If Variety and Spice loses this case, it is
conceivable that MBT can request further restrictions to be placed.

At this hearing, the public will be allowed to voice their opinions and
comments.  This applies to both sysops and users.  If MBT wins this case it
can cause serious restrictions to be place on BBS's, and will set a
precedence for other phone companies around the country to follow.

Your help is urgently needed!!  Please try to attend this hearing.  It will
be held at the Public Service Building, 6545 Merchant Way, Lansing,
Michigan.  The date is January 15.  I do not have the exact time but I
assume this hearing will last most of the day.  You do not have to testify,
but it would really be helpful if you can attend as a show of support.  The
MPSC does not think the Michigan public even cares about BBS's.  But we can
certainly jar their thinking if we can pack the room with sysops and users!

For more information, please contact Jerry Cross at 313-736-4544 (voice) or
313-736-3920 (bbs).  You can also contact the sysop of the Variety & Spice
BBS at 313-885-8377.

Please!  We need your support.

Notes from Ed Hopper:

In our case against Southwestern Bell, the same cockeyed logic was applied.
For a brief period, Southwestern Bell also maintained that the requirement
of file uploads was, in and of itself, cause for them to declare a BBS to
be a business because it required something "of value" for access.  We were
able to force Southwestern Bell to see things in a more moderate tone.

Recently, I had the opportunity to testify before the Texas PUC regarding
the Texas BBS case.  In that testimony, I stated that the telcos draw all
sorts of extreme scenarios in which the provision of residential service to
BBS systems is against the public good.  Their argument goes: "If we allow
them to have residential service, it will upset the equations and raise the
cost of telecommunications services to everyone."  However, there is not a
BBS on every block, or even one in every subdivision, and no rational
observer would ever expect that to be the case.  There is, however, cause
for most rational observers to believe that the increased cost of business
service, including it's increased burden in the area of deposits and
installation charges, could cause the closing of many BBS outlets.  This,
truly, would not be in the public good.

Ed Hopper

President
The Coalition of Sysops and Users Against Rate Discrimination

BBS: 713-997-7575  ehopper@attmail.com  ehopper@ehpcb.wlk.com

****************************

[%Telecom Digest% Moderator's Note: The problem of course is that the
telephone company only has two basic rates: a rate for residence/personal
communications and a rate for all else, which they term 'business phones'.
Where Ed's counter-argument fails is that while there are not BBS's on
every block, neither are there churches and charities on every block -- yet
they pay full business rates, as do social service hotline, information and
referral services. Are BBS information providers to be treated differently
than dial-a-prayer lines which run on business phones, or the proverbial
"Battered Women's Shelter outgoing phone line where the calls can't be
traced" which also pays business rates?

Here are some questions you may wish to give response to: Should there be a
third rate category made available, covering charitable and religious
organizations?  Should this third rate category be available to all
not-for-profit phone services such as BBS lines and social service referral
numbers or hotlines?  If BBS operators who charge money got such a rate,
should Compuserve or GEnie also be allowed to use the same rate?  Should
telco be the one to audit the revenues and decide which computer sites
should be treated as 'business' and which should be 'charitable
organization'?  Is it the fault of telco if the BBS operator does not
charge enough money to make a profit?  Where is the line to be drawn?
Answers?  PAT]

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
