------------------------------
 
Date:         Thu, 23 Aug 90 00:48:21 EDT
From:         Michael Rosen <CM193C@GWUVM.BITNET>
Subject:      More on the NY Raids
 
********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.00: File 5 of 5: CU in the News                      ***
********************************************************************
 
 
                    "NY State Police Round up Hackers"
      Computerworld, August 20, 1990, pg. 99, (by Michael Alexander)
 
The New York State Police rounded up 13 alleged computer hackers last week
- including a 14-year-old boy who is accused of breaking into a U.S. Air
Force computer at the Pentagon - and charged them with computer tampering
and computer trespassing.
 
The Hackers are suspected of altering some files and deleting others in a
mainframe computer at City University in Bellevue, Wash., according to
Donald Delaney, senior investigator and supervisor of the major case squad
at the state police barracks in East Farmingdale, N.Y.
 
The hackers allegedly used an 800 number to break into the computer, making
it easy to identify them, Delaney said.  More than 40 hackers reportedly
broke into the system, but only those who allegedly spent "an extended
period of time," in the computer were arrested.
 
Eight of those arrested were juveniles, Delaney said.  Police plan to
arrest three more hackers this week and "probably more" later, he said.
 
Police seized computers, modems and other gear used in the break-ins from
the homes of the 13 hackers.
 
Pentagon break-in
 
One of the hackers, a 14-year-old boy who used the handle Zod, is also
accused of breaking into a Unix-based superminicomputer at the Pentagon.
 
He is alleged to be a member of a hacker group called MOD, an acronym for
Masters of Disasters and Mothers on Drugs, among other appellations.
 
"The information gleaned from the computer is of unclassified,
administrative nature," said Major Steve Headley of the Air Force Base in
Washington, D.C.  "However, the office of special investigations of the Air
Force is concerned primarily that the act was criminal in itself
and...while it was innocuous, unclassified stuff, in aggregate, over a long
period of time, it could have meaning or be perhaps sensitive."  How and
why the break-in occurred remains to be determined, Headley said.
 
The arrests came after a two-month investigation by a number of agencies,
including the New York State Police, the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations and the U.S. Secret Service.
 
********************************************************************
 
------------------------------
 
                           **END OF CuD #2.00**
********************************************************************

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
