
Subject: Another experience with the law
From: mailrus!iuvax!ndcheg!ndmath!nstar!watcher@UUNET.UU.NET(watcher)
Date: Thu, 27 Sep 90 04:01:01 EST
------------------------------

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.05: File 5 of 7: Another Experience with the Law     ***
********************************************************************


regarding the fbi investigation of the nuprometheus source theft:

i was a victim of this investigation. i lost my position at apple for
"mysterious reasons" that neither my agency nor my supervisor could
clarify.  i was not "fired", as i was able to collect unemployment
following the incident. however, exactly what happened remains a mystery to
me. my story:

in approximately mid-to-late february of 1990, the feds (steven e cook and
his unnamed partner who didn't say much) went to one of apple's cupertino
facilities (vg6 to be precise) to visit my (now ex-) roommate. as he was at
home with the flu, they were not able to question him. two days later (this
would be a friday), they paid a visit to our house after not having found
him at work earlier that day. they proceeded to ask him many questions,
mostly about who he knew and how he knew them, and whether he had visited
certain individuals, such as henry s dakin. (dakin, as in dakin plush toys,
who operated an endeavour known as the 3220 gallery in san francisco, where
many interesting parties are known to take place.) they then asked him to
come to their office in s.f. for a polygraph examination. he told them he
would get back to them about this after consulting an attorney. attorney
said such examination was meant to trip him up, that they had no hard
evidence, and that he should decline and give them his (attorney's) phone
number if they had any questions. the following week, they called on each
of monday, wednesday, and friday (friday being the day he was to have gone
in) to make sure he didn't miss his appointment; all three times they were
given that "on the advice of my attorney..." he would not be there.

following monday at 8 am, the county sheriff appeared at the door to
arrest him on a four year old bench warrant. (county sheriff was required
instead of the city police as we lived in an unincorporated section at the
time, where city police would not have had jurisdiction.) he was arrested
and left to sit in a holding cell for many hours while paperwork was done.
it is interesting to note that the sheriff had a form with him with all
the pertinent information (name/address, etc), which noted steven e cook of
the fbi should be called (included phone number) if there were any
problems. the officer was not too pleased when he found that he was "doing
the fbi's work for them". i, however, stayed home (i guess this means i had
no warrants).  the next day, at around three in the afternoon, i was told
that "some friends of mine were here to see me" and that i should get down
to the lobby immediately. lo and behold, steven e cook had appeared in my
building, having first determined my whereabouts from questioning my
roommate. i was questioned for about 45 minutes, mostly on the same
subjects as my roommate, along with several new and interesting twists
indicating that they had done very thorough homework, including examining
all the sign-in logs.  i went back to my desk. i called my roommate.
someone answered his phone (whom i knew) and told me "i guess he doesn't
work here anymore." shortly after that, i went home for dinner, and as we
(some friends had appeared by this time) were all standing around just
about to leave, the phone rang, i answered it, and it was my agency
explaining that i was to go in TONIGHT and finish my project, and i was not
to go back tomorrow or thereafter. when asked from whom these orders had
come, the agency was unable to provide any details. this was tuesday, march
13th, nearly ten months after the nuprometheus incident.

some of the questions they asked me during my "interview" (the details are
fuzzy and i have forgotten most of the questions): do you know john draper?
how do you know him? how did you meet him? do you know henry dakin?  how do
you know him? how did you meet him? who owns the house you live in?  (we
were renting at the time, through an agency, i had no idea) since the phone
bill wasn't rightfully in anybody's name (phone company's mistake) it was
implied that we might be trying to defraud the phone company by providing
false billing information (never mind that we had always paid it in the
previous months).

after the incident and its resultant newspaper article (see san jose
mercury news, 15-march-1990, business section, front page), i found it
extremely difficult to obtain work, since any agency that heard about the
incident would "misplace" my resume and never call me again, and any
attempts to secure employment at apple resulted in purchasing and cch
telling the agency that i was "not allowed back", even before i had gotten
an interview.  all this seems to have been started by an old, vicious,
enemy of my then-roommate's, who (it is assumed) claimed to the fbi that he
had overheard my roommate bragging about his involvement in nuprometheus at
a party. which amounts to heresay and witch-hunts.

one thing's for sure: if the fbi later determines it was wrong, i know damn
well that they're not going to go back and undo the damage.  as of this
time, no charges have ever been filed, nor any search warrants served, nor
any equipment confiscated. perhaps i should consider myself lucky...? after
all, all i lost was my job ($52K/year) and my credibility.

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
