------------------------------

From: kk4fs!bloody@CRDGW1.GE.COM(Bloody Afterbirth)
Subject: Introduction to TOXIC SHOCK
Date: Wed, 10 Oct 90 20:49:32 EDT

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.07: File 8 of 8: Introduction to TOXIC SHOCK         ***
********************************************************************

{We have been asked by various readers for information on Toxic
Shock, so we asked the group to provide an introduction/summary,
which they did (moderators)}.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

!*@&#^$%#^@&!*@&#^$%#^@&!*@&#^$%#^@&!*@&#^$%#^@&!*@&#^$%#^@&!*@&#^$%#^@&!*


                            .
                         .:::::.               .::::::::.
                     ...:::::::::..           ::::::::::::
                  ..:::::::::::::::::..      :::::     ::::
                .:::     :::::::     :::.    :::::.      :
                 ::       :::::       ::      :::::::.
                  :        :::        :        :::::::::.
                           :::                    ::::::::
                           :::                        :::::
                          :::::               :        ::::
                          :::::  oxic        :::......::::  hock
                        .:::::::.             :::::::::::
                       :::::::::::             :::::::::

                                      by

                              Bloody Afterbirth

!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@*&#$^%!@

   By request, I present you with some info about Toxic Shock...

   Our main purpose in existence is to piss someone off.

   Originally, we did this (quite well, I like to think) by being
disgustingly explicit, both sexually and violently.  We did parodies of the
B-I-B-L-E <gasp>, made fun of nouns (people, places, things!), and basically
tried to be as raunchy as we could, with or without a serious message.

   We slowly began to change...  Our stories became less explicit,
sometimes, and became more dramatic, with unusual endings and some form of
meaning/message/moral behind them.  We began to mix our utter bullshit with
things of a more serious nature, though only the message behind what we did
may have seemed serious.  We were still being raunchy, but we were doing it
to get a point across, then.

   Our movement away from the original stories was agonizingly slow and we
regressed several times along the way...  I wanted the group to become a
force (hopefully) for change...  I wanted to educate people about things, to
try to open their eyes about certain issues in society and life...
Eventually, the others began to see it my way...

   It was about that time that we first excerpted from magazines and
pamphlets...  We began to get pissed off about environmental issues, social
issues, political issues, etc..  Our files and those things that we
excerpted began to reflect this.

   About that time I wrote a story called The Final Conflict which, on the
surface, was the final battle between My Lord Fetus and that weak spined
fool of a deity we call Coathanger...  As I pointed out in the file, it was
designed to present my views on drugs, abortion, sex, etc., and to make
people think about these issues for themselves.

   That was, I like to think, the herald of a new age for Toxic Shock.

   We began excerpting more and more, from HIGH TIMES, Omni, GreenPeace
literature, etc..  What we were reading pissed us off, what we saw on the
news pissed us off...  And the fact that noone was doing anything about
those things pissed us off.

   So, we tried our best to get this information to the people, and
hopefully to make someone, somewhere, angry enough to help us fight the
corruption in our government and society, and the morally WRONG policies set
by our government.

   That is where we were, and that is where we are now.

   We embrace the Underground, for it is our home.

   What we have called the Underground includes the Hacker Society that has
been rapidly declining since around 1985, and the Drug Culture.  This makes
us look bad, nasty, and evil, and we really don't care much...  Because the
people we want to reach out to are open minded enough to listen to what we
have to say, and are able to weigh the information in their heads and make
up their own minds about things like drug legalization, terrorist attacks
such as Operation Sun Devil, and other such issues.

   We continue to excerpt from magazines, take things that we find floating
along the networks, and basically try to get in your face with the Other
Viewpoint to all of the propaganda that the government and big pressure
groups feed those Television Addicts.

   The citizens of the United States do not seem to realize, do not seem to
care, that the name of the country will soon be changed to United Police
State of America...  We try to help people see that this is happening, that
the Rights to Free Speech, Thought, and Action, which are supposedly
Inalienable, are being systematically stripped from all the people...

   Unfortunately, this has proven to be difficult because, as of right now,
we have only three members...Even by the most lenient of measures, the most
we have ever had at one time has been six...  Admittedly, we've done over
one hundred files with three people alone, but we could really use some help
in our effort to Educate...

   Soooooo...For the future...Ideally, we will help prevent the situation in
America, the Home of the Slave, from getting any worse, and help to speed up
the radical reforms and changes that are necessary in the ideals, morals,
attitudes and policies of the people of this country...and the world...


                (c)October 1990  Bloody Afterbirth/Toxic Shock
       .....Reproduce at will, with no modifications to the text.....

      Toxic Shock are not affiliated with CuD (not YET!), so if you are
      wanting to contact one of us, please don't bother the moderators.
       Bloody Afterbirth can be found on Lunatic Labs and Ripco, or if
        you prefer to use USENET or Internet, shoot something to this
                           guy, he'll pass it on...

               sixhub!kk4fs!lynched   -or-   lynched@kkf4s.uucp

       You can also call the Centre Of Eternity at 615.552.5747 (12/24)
          The Sop can get you in touch with one of us eventually...


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
