------------------------------

Date: Thu, 08 Oct 90 12:01:45 CDT
From: Gordon Meyer (CuD Co-moderator)
Subject: 13th Annual National Computer Security Conference (Part 1)

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.07: File 5 of 8: NCSC Conference (part 1)            ***
********************************************************************

13th Annual National Computer Security Conference
October 1-4, 1990
Omni Shoreham Hotel
Washington, D.C.
Reported by Gordon Meyer

Dr. Dorothy Denning's presentation, "Concerning Hackers Who Break Into
Computer Systems", was part of the 'ethics' session held the afternoon of
Oct 3rd.

Denning's presentation consisted mainly of data, in the form of quotation
and observations, taken from her recent interviews with approximately ten
self-identified computer hackers.  While her paper offers some suggestions
on how the computer security community could assimilate some of the
information hackers have available, her presentation instead focused on
several thematic concerns she found to be prevalent in the computer
underground.

This was a wise tactical decision on her part, as her argument that hackers
can be of some use to computer security professionals is not only somewhat
unique, but must be considered only after the anti-hacker stereotypes have
been methodically shattered.  Trying to accomplish this in a 20 minute
verbal presentation would be unrealistic.   However, it should be pointed
out that each of the conference attenders did receive the full text of
Denning's paper (in fact, all the papers presented at all the sessions) in
the two-volume proceedings book for the conference.

The data presented at the session highlighted the CU's concern for ethical
and legal issues related to information security.  A large number of the
quotes were taken from Denning's interview with Frank Drake (publisher of
the defunct W.O.R.M. magazine), and focused, in part, on the ethics of
large corporate data bases on individuals, and the NSA's role in providing
standards for data encryption.  Denning also utilized some quotes from
PHRACK Inc (specifically the infamous 'Phoenix Project' announcement) and a
quote concerning the recent spate of CU busts as reported in a past issue
of CuD.  Other excerpts were taken from The Mentor's Guide to Hacking, and
various other statements from her interviews with unidentified hackers.
The overall thrust of all of this was to show that hackers can be concerned
with information technology ethics, their own actions while on a system,
and the future of information technology and the CU in general.

Denning's presentation appeared to be well received by the audience.  By
presenting the actual words of the subjects, rather than summarizing her
findings, the CU was brought to life in a way that most likely many of the
attenders had never seen before.  (Each quote, by the way, was shown on an
overhead projector and dramatically read by Dorothy's husband, Peter
Denning.)   The audience reactions during the presentations where quite
interesting to observe.  Outward displays of hostility, disbelief, and
amusement were common, usually in reaction to statements of freedom, power,
and tales of busts respectively.

After Denning's presentation there was time for a few questions and
audience comments.  One comment was from a West German attender and
concerned the Chaos Club.  He told of Cliff Stoll's hacker adversary and
how "three disks of VMS information was sold to the KGB" despite denials
that such a thing had been done.  His conclusion, emphatically stated, was
that "you can't believe what hackers tell you, you can't trust them!".
This comment received an enthusiastic burst of applause from the crowd.

The panel session, "Hackers: Who Are They?", was held Thursday morning.
The session was moderated by Denning, and consisted of the following
panelists:

    Katie Hafner, author. Currently writing a book on Mitnick,
                  Pengo, and Morris.
    Frank Drake, former publisher of W.O.R.M. magazine.
    Emmanuel Goldstein, publisher of 2600 magazine.
    Craig Neidorf, former co-publisher of PHRACK Inc.
    Sheldon Zenner, defense attorney in the Neidorf/Phrack case.
    Gordon Meyer, co-moderator of Computer Underground Digest.

Denning opened the session by stating that although her initial intentions
were to bring actual hackers in for the session, criticisms that doing so
would be giving "aid and comfort to the enemy" convinced her that the next
best thing, utilizing people who were closely associated with the CU, would
be more prudent. This theme, aggrandizing computer criminals, would surface
two or three more times during the session.

Denning started the session off by presenting each panelist with one or two
questions to answer.  These questions served to introduce both the speaker
and various aspects of the computer underground.  Her first question was to
Hafner, and addressed the concern that by writing about hackers,
impressionable young readers might be attracted to the "fame and glory" of
the enterprise.  Hafner's answer essentially focused on the hardship and
emotional/financial loss each of her subjects had suffered as a result of
their activities. Hardly a glorified or attractive picture of hacking.

Other introductory questions dealt with Zenner's summary of the
Neidorf/Phrack case, Frank Drake defined "cyberpunk" and his motives in
founding W.O.R.M. magazine, Goldstein discussed 2600 magazine, Neidorf on
PHRACK Inc, and Meyer on CuD and defining the computer underground.

A number of themes emerged from the questions that were asked by the
conference attenders:

    First Amendment rights, and the publication of stolen information.

    Morality of publishing information that could be used to break the law.

    Possible implications of hacking into a system that would threaten the
    life and/or safety of others. (such as a hospital computer)

    The obligation of companies to secure their own systems, and possible
    legal complications that could arise if they fail to do so.

    The perception that corporations overstate the financial impact of CU
    activity.  How much does it really cost you for a hacker to "steal" 3
    seconds of CPU time?

    Possible use of CU members or skills by organized crime.

    Ways in which companies or organizations could provide a means for CU
    members to provide information on security holes, without risking
    reprisal.

There were many more questions and comments, but unfortunately the session
was not recorded.  Perhaps what was even more interesting than the comments
and answers themselves was the emotional reaction of the audience.

Of the approximately 1600 people that registered for the conference around
250 attended this session.  Scheduled to run about an hour and half, it
lasted nearly two hours with a number of questions still remaining to be
asked.  Audience attention and participation was high, but couldn't be
described as very "friendly" at times.  Subjects that seemed especially
"hot" included the financial impact of hacking, and the ease of reading and
utilizing information found in personal email.

The session went quite well, with many ideas and views being exchanged on
both sides.  There was a feeling that some good ideas and concepts had
surfaced, and perhaps both sides had learned something about the other.
There was, however, a definite adversarial feeling in the air. The
panelists did, for the most part, manage to keep from being cast as
apologists for the CU and were straight forward with their views and
opinions.  Goldstein and Drake in particular served to "ease over" a couple
of tough questions with the application of appropriate humor.  (eg: Hey, if
it wasn't for hackers some of you wouldn't have a job!)

Denning should be congratulated and thanked for her efforts to bring some
dialogue between the CU and security professionals.  This session should be
an example of the mutual benefit such meetings can bring about.  If the
further efforts in this direction are made, rather than worrying about the
politics and appearances of meeting with hackers, perhaps some moderation
can be brought to both sides of the issue.  Hyperbole and hysteria are
hardly productive for either group, and only by shattering stereotypes and
finding common ground will any resolution be possible.  Let's hope that
future meetings of the profession will allow for further discussions of
this type.

Postscript: It was great to meet the many CuD readers that came up and
introduced themselves after the session.  Thanks for your comments and kind
words.  Also, welcome to the new CuD subscribers that were picked up as a
result of this conference.  Additional comments and observations regarding
any aspect of the conference are most welcome from any CuD reader, send
them in!

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
