------------------------------

From: portal!cup.portal.com!dan-hankins@SUN.COM
Subject: Response to Mars "Censoring"
Date: Sun, 21 Oct 90 00:04:25 PDT

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.09: File 4 of 8: Response to Mars "Censoring"       ***
********************************************************************

In article <CuD #2.08 #3>, Karl Lehenbauer <karl@sugar.hackercorp.com> writes,

>I used Prodigy several times, and it is a heavily censored system,...

This is inaccurate.  Prodigy is not censored, it is _edited_.  There is a
significant difference.  When newspaper articles are removed by government
order, that's censorship.  When the newspaper owners decide to not run an
article because it is counter to their editorial policies (or personal
prejudices), then that's editing.

The difference is that in the first case, the State is telling a citizen (by
threat of force) what she can and cannot do with her own property.  In the
second, a citizen is disposing of his property as he sees fit.

The Prodigy situation is far more like the second case than the first.
Prodigy resources are owned by IBM and Sears.  Since Prodigy is their
property, they may dispose of it as they see fit.  This includes editing their
databases to remove any information inconsistent with their policies.

Some may argue that the $10 a month (plus fees for other services provided)
gives the Prodigy subscriber the right to post anything she desires. This
isn't the case.  The subscriber is paying for the right to use the resources
as provided for in the contract.  Unless IBM and Sears agree in the contract
not to edit or abridge information residing on Prodigy, they continue to have
the right, both morally and legally, to do so.

Censorship is when some organization says, "You may not say X.".  Editing is
when some organization says, "You may not use _my property_ to say X."  This
is an important distinction to make explicit; there is an increasing tendency
for people to believe that they have not only the right to say whatever they
want, but also the unlimited right to use the property of others to do so.

Mr. Lehenbauer also writes,

>If this is IBM's view of the future of personal electronic communications...
>it is a bleak future indeed... every message must be so inoffensive that
>*nobody* is going to be offended by it... and that is censorship.

IBM doesn't control electronic communications in this country;  the Prodigy
subscriber is certainly free to go elsewhere to express his views.  This is
what many of them are doing.  BIX is getting a lot of former Prodigy users
these days.

It's not censorship.

It's also worth mentioning here that although the Prodigy bulletin board
system is edited, Sears and IBM have agreed to not edit email.  Users are free
to form email groups (like Internet mailing lists) to discuss whatever they
want, from sex to explosives.  They just have to pay extra for it.

In article <CuD #2.08 #4), the moderators write,

>In the MARS incident, the NSF flexed its fiscal muscles (according to those
>on the receiving end).

This is again not censorship.  The NSF pays for the Internet, and has the
right to say how those monies are spent.  Since MARS resided on an Internet
node, the NSF had the right to refuse to pay for those files to be transmitted
across its network.  In fact, the NSF has the right to refuse to pay for
network connections for any site for any reason whatsoever, unless it has made
a contract to the contrary.  If this is "flexing its fiscal muscles", then so
be it.

The quoted article quotes some other postings.  I reproduce here the relevant
portions:

>I also don't like the idea of the university having to censor this board to
>suit the narrow-minded leanings of a few people...

>Again i am sorry that CENSORSHIP found its way into another democratic haven
>of society...

This is just more of the sort of illogic I referred to earlier.  If these
folks want their X-rated pictures, then they can have them.  They just can't
expect somebody else (the NSF or their University) to pay for them.  They are
certainly free to start their own BBS or post the material on a private BBS or
Usenet mail server that allows such stuff.

>Can a few angry letters to a federal bureaucrat invoke threats of fiscal
>blackmail?

     If I boycott your business because I find some of your activities
objectionable, am I threatening you with fiscal blackmail?   Why should the
NSF or a university be any different?  The NSF is just boycotting sites that
carry material it finds offensive, and the universities are just exercising
their right to control use of their property.

>It would seem that officials could confiscate the equipment of a sysop who
>maintained adult .gif/.gl files.

     If you are concluding this on the basis of the "federal prosecutions and
application of RICO" referred to earlier, then I agree with you that it's
something to be worried about.  It would be a violation of various First
Amendment rights.

     If you're concluding this by extension from the NSF actions, I must
disagree.  A government agency deciding what it wants to spend its money on is
hardly analogous to confiscating someone's property.  The legal right to do
one does not provide the legal right to do the other.

>A recent article... raised the spectre of "licensing" BBSs.

     Now _this_ is something to worry about.  This reminds me of the situation
in oppressive regimes, where printing presses and photocopiers are "licensed".
Somehow I don't think they'll get away with this one.  Any such regulation
would be a clear violation of First (and other) Amendment rights.

CLARIFICATION:

When an organization is funded by extortion (i.e. taxes), those who fund it
have a moral right to say how those funds will be spent, over and above the
organization's aims.  The receivers of the service _still_ don't have any
rights of control, unless they have entered into a contract with the provider
that gives them that right.

In a constitutionally limited republic such as ours, that taxpayer control is
exerted in one of two ways.  The first is by electing to government those we
believe will implement the policies we want.  The second (and far more rare
option) is referendum.

As long as its decisions remain within the policies set for it by elected
officials and referendum, the NSF has the right to spend (or refuse to spend)
its money as it likes.

If the article I read in CuD is any indication, the purpose of the NSFnet is
to only support the exchange of "scholarly" information.  X-rated GIFs don't
belong in that category, in most folks' eyes.

:END CLARIFICATION

By the way, with PC-Pursuit costs, I pay $40 a month for Net access.  Yet at
work there is an Internet gateway I could sign up for access to and use to
make my posts (for free!).  The reason I don't is that I don't think it's
moral to use IBM resources for purposes IBM wouldn't approve of, such as
expressing disapproval of their policies; it's their property.  So I'm not
just spouting rhetoric that doesn't cost me anything.

+++++++++

Dan Hankins

dan-hankins@cup.portal.com
dan-hankins@pro-realm.cts.com

Complete the following: Pro is to Con as Progress is to ________.

Disclaimer: I don't work for the NSF or Sears.  Although I have a contract
with IBM to provide programming services to them in return for a salary, this
does not constitute approval for their policies.  In particular, I think that
their Prodigy policies, while not immoral, are particularly stupid.  The kind
of editing they do on the bulletin board, their ridiculously high email
charges, and their complete lack of upload/download capability will simply
drive customers to other services.  I am not a Prodigy subscriber, nor do I
intend to become one.  For the same $10 a month, I like Portal much better.
And I post things in alt.individualism that you'd never see on Prodigy BBS.
I defend your right to freedom of expression.  Just don't ask me or anyone
else to foot the bill.

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
