------------------------------

From: Anonymous
Subject: Warrants schmarrants! The SS is Crazy!
Date:    Fri, 16 Nov 90 17:12 CST

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.12: File 7 of 9: Warrants Schmarrants (SJG, part 2)  ***
********************************************************************

I've read the Steve Jackson Games warrant in CuD 2.11 and it makes me want
to move to Russia. It is crazy, just plain crazy.  It reminds me of essay
tests when I wasn't prepared for a question and tried a snow-job hoping the
prof wouldn't notice. I usually got an F, but Foley gets rewarded and Steve
Jackson gets raided.  Foley and his crowd have taken a few logs and blown
them out of context. They claim that Erik Bloodaxe's post on Jan 23 is some
kind of conspiracy, and that it proves that there's an encryption service,
and it says no such thing. The following posts don't add anything to that
post, so it seems it's just a silly attempt to fake evidence.  Bloodaxe's
post may have been ill considered and in bad taste, but that's not a crime.
Heck, if bad taste were a crime, federal agents would be doing 30 years for
their wingtips.

The Phoenix Project had Phrack 24 on the board with a few pages of a
document. So what? Foley keeps talking about "my investigation." Well, if
he'd really investigated, he'd have known that the document in Phrack #24
was more than slightly edited and that the information in it was public.
Everything I've read says that the information that was published costs
about 13 dollars, not the 79,000 Foley claimed.  Was he having a nap when
he claims to be investigating? Phrack is on a lot of boards, not just the
Phoenix Project, so what's the big deal? They make it sound like it was a
great conspiracy. Doesn't the first amendment allow posting legal
magazines?? Foley claims to be a lawyer; some lawyer!  His lack of concern
for constitutional rights makes me wonder if his law degree isn't mail
order.

Foley also claims that Mentor's post on Jan 26 links him to some encryption
service. All he did was explain what Kermit is.  Is that a crime?
Explaining a protocol? Christ, would anybody else who explained Kermit have
been busted?  Beware when somebody asks about the difference between Puma
and Lynx. They might be feds and your boss might be raided.

Since when are encryption and decryption devices illegal? I can get them
off any good PD board in the country. Did Foley rewrite the law on his own?

The list of stuff to be searched boggles the mind. Books, notes, tapes, and
everything but the computerized micro-wave oven could be snatched (oh-oh!
Better keep quiet on that one or they'll get that next).

>From this they justify their raid on Steve Jackson's company and nearly
destroy it.  I guess you have to be prosecuted before you can charge
malicious prosecution, but I hope there is some way that those involved in
this total travesty of justice can get their due. It is frightening to
think that this could happen in America, and if Foley and his lackey's can
be sued, hopefully somebody will nail him. This isn't legitimate law
enforcement, it's a witch hunt. And if Foley is sued, I hope he gets more
justice than he is willing to give others.

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
