------------------------------

From: Adam Gaffin
Subject: Prodigy Saga Continues
Date: November 14, 1990

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.12: File 4 of 9: The Prodigy Saga Continues          ***
********************************************************************

(The Prodigy saga continues. Adam Gaffin, who has been following the story
for the Middlesex News in Framingham, Mass, reports that after a couple of
days, Prodigy restored the account of the "Prodigy Nine" and then, a few
days after that, pulled them again! The total number is actually now up to
about 15.  Prodigy has been receiving lots of bad press in the media, and
Henry Niman, a prodigy victim, has been interviewed about his experiences
by several TV stations and newspapers.  Adam recently wrote the following
stories--moderators).
+++++++++++++

From: "Conversations with Fred," Middlesex News, Framingham, 11/6/90.

The story is bizarre but true, swears Herb Rothman. Seems Prodigy, the
network run as a joint venture by Sears and IBM, wouldn't let somebody post
a message in a coin-collecting forum that he was looking for a particular
Roosevelt dime for his collection. Upset, the man called "member services."
The representative told him the message violated a Prodigy rule against
mentioning another user in a public message.  "What user?" the man asked.
"Roosevelt Dime," the rep replied.  "That's not a person!" the man said.
"Yes he is, he's a halfback for the Chicago Bears," the rep shot back.

Rothman is one of those alleged compu-terrorists Prodigy claims is
harassing other users and companies that advertise on the service by
sending out thousands upon thousands of increasingly hostile messages in
protest of a Prodigy plan to begin charging users who send more than 30
e-mail messages a month. Rothman and the others say they sent very polite
messages to people (Penny Hay of Los Angeles says her messages were even
approved by the Prodigy legal department) telling them about the new fees
and urging them to protest.

What's really happening is that Prodigy is proving its complete arrogance
and total lack of understanding of the dynamics of on-line communication.
They just don't get it. People are NOT going to spend nearly $130 a year
just to see the weather in Oregon or order trips to Hawaii.

Even the computerphobes Prodigy wants to attract quickly learn the real
value of the service is in finding new friends and holding intelligent
"discussions" with others across the country.

But Prodigy blithely goes on censoring everything meant for public
consumption, unlike other nationwide services (or even bulletin-board
systems run out of some teenager's bedroom). Rothman's story is not the
only one about  capricious or just plain stupid censoring.  Dog fanciers
can't use the word "bitch" when talking about their pets, yet the service
recently ran an advice column all about oral sex. One user who complained
Law" was not allowed on was told that "queen b***h" would be acceptable,
because adults would know what it meant but the kiddies would be saved.

So when the supposed technology illiterates Prodigy thinks make up its user
base managed to get around this through the creation of private mail
"lists" (and, in fact, many did so at the urging of Prodigy itself!),
Prodigy started complaining of "e-mail hogs," quietly announced plans to
levy charges for more than a minute number of e-mail messages each month
and finally, simply canceled the accounts of those who protested the
loudest!

And now we are watching history in the making, with the nation's first
nationwide protest movement organized almost entirely by electronic mail
(now don't tell Prodigy this, but all those people they kicked off quickly
got back onto the system  -- Prodogy allows up to six users per household
account, and friends simply loaned their empty slots to the protest
leaders).

It's truly amazing how little faith Prodigy has in the ability of users to
behave themselves. Other systems have "sysops" to keep things in line, but
rarely do they have to pull messages. Plus, Prodigy is just being plain
dumb. Rothman now has a mailing list of about 1,500. That means every time
he sends out one of his newsletters on collectibles, he sends 1,500 e-mail
messages, which, yes, costs more for Prodigy to send over long-distance
lines and store in its central computers. But if they realized their users
are generally mature, rather than treating them as 4-year-olds, Rothman
could post just one message in a public area, that everybody  could see.

Is this any way to run an on-line system? Does Prodigy really want to drive
away the people most inclined to use the service -- and see all those ads
that pop up at the bottom of the screen? Prodigy may soon have to do some
accounting to the folks at IBM and Sears, who by most accounts have already
poured at least $750 million into "this thing."

(With your computer and modem, you can reach Fred the Middlesex News
Computer anytime, day or night, at (508) 872-8461. Set your parameters to
8-1-N and up to 2400 baud.)

+++++++++++++

         "Prodigy Pulls Plug on Electronic Mail Service for Some"
             From: Middlesex News, Framingham, Mass., 11/2/90

                    By Adam Gaffin (News staff writer)

Users of a national computer network vow to continue a protest against
censorship and a new charge for electronic mail even though the company
kicked them off-line this week.

Brian Ek, spokesman for the network, Prodigy, said the "handful" of users
had begun harassing other users and advertisers on the service and that
some had even created programs "to flood members' `mailboxes' with
(thousands of) repeated and increasingly strident harangues," he said.

But leaders of the protest say they sent only polite letters - approved by
the company's legal department - using techniques taught by the company
itself. Up to nine of them had their accounts pulled this week.

Protests began in September when the company said it would cut unlimited
electronic mail from its monthly fee -- which includes such services as
on-line airline reservations, weather and games -- and would charge 25
cents for every message above a monthly quota of 30. Ek says the design of
the Prodigy network makes "e-mail" very expensive and that few users send
more than 30 messages a month.

But Penny Hay, the only organizer of the "Cooperative Defense Committee"
whose account was not shut this week, said she and others are upset with
Prodigy's "bait and switch" tactics: the company continues to promote
"free" electronic mail as a major feature. She said Prodigy itself had
spurred use of e-mail by encouraging subscribers to set up private e-mail
"lists" rather than use public forums and that the charges will especially
hurt families, because the quota is per household, not person.

Ek said relatively few members protested the rate change. Gary Arlen, who
publishes a newsletter about on-line services, called the controversy "a
tempest in a teapot."

Hay, however, said the group now has the backing of nearly 19,000 Prodigy
users - the ones advertisers would want to see on-line because they are the
most active ones on the system and so more likely to see their ads.

The group is also upset with the way the company screens messages meant for
public conferences. Other services allow users to see "postings"
immediately.

"They are infamous for this unpredictable and unfathomable censorship," Hay
said.

"We feel what we are doing is not censoring because what we are essentially
doing is electronic publishing," Ek said, comparing the public messages to
letters to the editor of a family newspaper.

Neil Harris, marketing director at the competing GEnie service, said many
people would feel intimidated knowing that what they write is being
screened. He said GEnie only rarely has to deleted messages. And he said
GEnie has picked up several thousand new customers from among disgruntled
Prodigy users.
del 85 86; ch eol to')' in 89; m 87

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
