------------------------------

From:     <KRAUSER@SNYSYRV1.BITNET>
Subject:  International Information Retrieval Guild
Date:     Wed, 28 Nov 90 21:18 EDT

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.14: File 4 of 8: Internt'l Info Retrieval Guild      ***
********************************************************************

The following article describes the who and why of a computer group called
The International Information Retrieval Guild. I asked this group if they
would write an article for the readers of CuD in the hopes that other
computer groups past or present would write similar articles.  I hope this
article will cast more light on what the "computer underground and hackers"
are and I invite other groups to send me an article about themselves.  My
mail address is KRAUSER@SNYSYRV1.BITNET.

      =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                     Who? What? When? Why? and Where?

                                    THE
                               INTERNATIONAL
                                INFORMATION
                                 RETRIEVAL
                                   GUILD

      =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This article has been published to answer a few basic questions regarding
The International Information Retrieval Guild.  We hope that those who read
these words will do so in an objective manner.

The I.I.R.G. Yesterday.....

The I.I.R.G. is not a new organization suddenly appearing on the scene. The
I.I.R.G. was originally founded by the Mercenary in 1982.  In the following
six years the group grew to prominence in the Commodore 64 community and
created numerous share-ware utilities as well as text files.

The guild at this time was divided into two chapters, One would concentrate
on the publishing of text files and share-ware, While the second would
concentrate on the accumulation of data for the organization.  At its peak
in those 6 years the I.I.R.G. ran a network of six bulletin board systems
spanning the East coast of the United States, as well as one system in
South Africa.

The group was comprised of individuals ranging from 17 to 42 years of age,
all of those having a wide variety of backgrounds and interests.

With the demise of the mainstream Commodore 64 community, (I know I'll
catch some flack on that one), and the introduction of the much superior
Amiga, the group was disbanded except for a small core of the founding
members.

Of the four surviving original members, their loyalty was divided.  Two
went with the graphics capabilities and multi-tasking of the Amiga, And Two
went with the IBM.

The I.I.R.G. Today...

In early March of 1990, for the first time in over two years.  The founding
members reconvened and discussed reforming the guild as a Vocal
organization. (It must be noted that in earlier days the I.I.R.G. was an
invitation only organization) The sudden shift in attitudes was due to the
negative publicity afforded hackers in the press and television.

After a brief hiatus to Canada in April, Mercenary set about establishing
the groups bulletin board system and contacting former members throughout
the United States.  Knighthack, another of the founding members, was
contacted and set about the plans for publishing PHANTASY.  Phantasy is to
be the I.I.R.G.'s voice to the world, a forum for discussing topics of
interest to the Computer Underground.  At this point I'd like to have
Mercenary discuss this.

The I.I.R.G. was founded on the principal of exploration, The group as a
whole does not advocate illegal activities.  To us Hacking is an Artform to
be nurtured and condoned.  Phantasy will only publish legally obtainable
information and is not intended to be a replacement for Phrack.  (Although
we do understand someone else will now be publishing Phrack, we wish them
the best of luck..)

The I.I.R.G. today is a small core of enthusiasts with a wide range of
computer preferences (IBM,AMIGA,DEC,etc) and will no longer concentrate on
one machine.  I'd like to point out that freedom of speech is one of our
constitutional rights, But it seems that certain members of the
Law-enforcement establishment and certain politicians have forgotten this.

It's high time that the media also remembered this and looked at things
from our prospective. Techno Terrorists,high tech bandits, modern day
robin-hoods, this is all I see appear in the media.  What about Hacker
cracks sex offender's security (Pete Leppik) or Hacker plugs multi-million
dollar security hole?  Let's see some positive articles folks... Now I know
theres always a few bad apples in the bunch,and I don't dispute this, but
for the most part a true hacker is driven by curiosity about the world.
This is the same kid who took the family stereo apart when he was six not
one of Yassar's boys.  I hope I've made my point and have gotten the
message across, As long as there are things to take apart,chinese
restaurants open till 2am,and a computer.. There will be hackers..

Mercenary....


Phantasy may be obtained at the following Systems...

     1. IIRG Headquarters- The Rune Stone BBS - 1200/2400 Baud 24 Hours
         Call for the Earliest possible releases of Phantasy and other
         IIRG files. Our system will be going private so call Now while
         you still can, at (203) 485-0088.

     2. Lightning Systems- 24 hours - at (414) 363-4282

     3. Sycamore Elite- 24 Hours - at (815) 895-5573

     4. TAP's BBS at (502) 499-8933

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
