------------------------------

Date:      23 September, 1990
From:      Various Contributors
Subject:   The CU in the News

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.04: File 7 of 7: The CU in the News                  ***
********************************************************************


             "Justice Department Computer Security Questioned"

The General Accounting Office (GAO) has issued a report criticizing the
Justice Department (DOJ) for failing to have a management system in place
to secure its highly sensitive computer systems and has concluded that
classified files were at risk.  The report concludes that immediate action
is required to correct security weaknesses at the main Justice Department
data center and in computer systems used by DOJ litigating organizations.

The report found several security weaknesses at DOJ's new data center in
Rockville, MD, a site leased by DOJ from Control Data Corp. for 17 years.
According to GAO, there are "numerous uncontrolled entrances...through
which individuals could easily remove sensitive data."  In addition, the
report is critical of DOJ's lack of contingency plans for emergencies at
the center and has not conducted a complete risk assessment that takes into
account possible adverse actions by disgruntled employees.

Copies of the report, entitled "Justice Automation:  Tighter Computer
Security Needed" may be obtainable from the GAO (202/225-6241).  The report
is GAO/IMTEC-90-69 and is dated July 30, 1990.

------------------------------

TRENTON, N.J. (UPI) -- Assembly Speaker Joseph Doria said Monday he was
concerned by news that an alleged Republican break-in of Democratic
computer files took place with the knowledge of the GOP's highest-ranking
staff member.

Doria, D-Hudson, said he had instructed all Assembly members and staff with
knowledge of the ``hacking'' incident to turn their information over to
Attorney General Robert Del Tufo, who is investigating the repeated
break-ins.

John Kohler, executive director of the GOP Assembly staff, resigned Friday
admitting he had been aware of the activities of Jeffrey Land, a low-level
staffer who reportedly broke into Democrats' files in the legislative
computer system and discovered that Democrats had used the state-owned
computer for political work.

State law bars use of state equipment for political work or doing political
work on state time.

Previous to Kohler's resignation, however, top lawmakers had dismissed the
break-ins as a computer hacker's prank.

------------------------------

"Think that Computer Message you just sent was Secret?  Think Again"

By Bart Ziegler
Associated Press
+++++++++++++++++

NEW YORK -- Next time you push that button on your computer to send a
co-worker a racy electronic mail message about the boss, think twice.
Someone may be reading your mail.  Every day, millions of computer users
send electronic messages to fellow employees, supervisors, clients and
friends.  Many assume these computer-to-computer electronic mail systems --
the postal system of the Information Age -- are confidential.  But a recent
lawsuit challenges that notion.  The class action contends a California
company spied on employees for months by monitoring thousands of their
electronic messages.  The lawsuit, filed last month by several employees
again Epson America Inc.  of Torrance, Calif., claims the company's
computer operations manager made printed copies of electronic mail sent and
received by 700 Epson workers.  The suit claims such snooping violates a
state wiretap law.  Epson, a Japanese-owned company that sells personal
computers, calls the lawsuit unfounded.  "It is clearly not the policy of
Epson to indiscriminately read electronic mail," said spokesman Scot
Edwards.  He declined to comment on the suit's specific allegations.  The
lawsuit is an example of a growing privacy debate surrounding "E-mail,"
which has mushroomed in popularity during the past decade with the growth
in personal computers.  Among other cases:

o       The mayor of Colorado Springs, Colo., caused a stir this year when
it was discovered he had been reading printouts of electronic messages that
City Council members had sent each other in confidence.

o       The Iran-Contra affair unraveled partly because investigators
discovered electronic messages sent by L. Col. Oliver North and supporters.
The North team didn't realize that every message was stored on computer
tape.

Computer experts say some E-mail systems automatically destroy electronic
messages once they are read.  Others keep a copy.  But even systems that
erase old messages aren't safe from snoops.  In most systems, computer room
operators can rea messages that haven't yet been opened by recipients, said
Mike Zisman, president of SoftSwitch Inc., a Wayne, Pa., company that helps
corporations link E-mail systems.  "When you send a message, most people
think it's as private as sending it through the U.S. Postal System.  But in
some companies it can be as private as writing it on the bathroom wall,"
said David Atlas, an E-Mail analyst at International Data Corp., a research
firm.  Atlas said he knows of another suit similar to the Epson class
action, as well as employees at two other companies who are considering
their own lawsuits, but he declined to identify them.  Few employers have
explicit policies on the use and privacy of E-Mail, said Walter Ulrich, an
office automation specialist at the consulting firm Arthur D. Little Inc.
"That's an area where companies should give guidance to employees," said
Ulrich, who estimates that there are 10 million E-Mail users in North
America.  Ulrich recommended companies state they will not snoop in E-Mail
systems unless they believe users are using them illegally or abusively.
But he doesn't think companies should be barred outright from reading
E-Mail, since the companies own the systems.

The American Civil Liberties Union takes a stronger stance.  It believes
federal privacy safeguards are needed to prevent employers from
eavesdropping on employees' personal affairs that happen to be contained in
computer files.

"There's virtually no law that would stop any employer from systematically
reading al of the computerized information of any of their employees," said
Lewis Maltby, coordinator of the ACLU's National Task Force on Civil
Liberties in the World Place.

Federal laws that bar wiretapping don't apply to computer systems, Maltby
said.


********************************************************************

------------------------------

                           **END OF CuD #2.04**
********************************************************************

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
