
------------------------------

From: Toxic Shock
Subject: Another view of hacking
Date: Sat, 06 Oct 90 03:04:57 EDT

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.06: File 4 of 5: Another View of Hacking             ***
********************************************************************

{The Toxic Shock group forwarded the following over to us--moderators.}

                         The Evil That Hackers Do
                         ------------------------

"I am a hacker."

If I ever told that to anyone, it would immediately be assumed that I am a
malicious, vandalising, thieving, pseudo-terrorist out to take over the
computers of the world for personal gain or quite possibly to glean some
morbid satisfaction from deleting megs upon megs of valuable data.

Excrement of an uncastrated male bovine.

"I am associated with the computer underground."

If I ever told that to anyone, there would be a flash flood of foolish
associations in that person's mind between myself and The Mafia, with Saddam
Hussein, Syria, Libya, Abu Nidal, and who knows what else.

More excrement of an uncastrated male bovine.

Almost universally, among the ignorant majority, we hackers are considered to
be dangerous thugs whose sole purpose in life is to cause as much damage as we
can in as little time as possible to the largest number of people.

Need I repeat my picturesque opinion?

Sure, there are those little kiddies (mental and physical) who call themselves
"hackers" and fit the above descriptions.  There are also people who call
themselves "human beings" that rape, murder, cheat, lie and steal every few
minutes (or is it seconds, now?).  Does that mean that all "human beings"
should then be placed in prison?

Perhaps the term "hacker" has become a misnomer, but for my purposes in this
file, I will use that term to describe the way I view us hackers.

A hacker is always two things:  curious and bored.

The boredom of a hacker is spawned by a society whose educational system is
designed mainly to get X number of students through the schools with the
average scores of X on tests; tests whose hardest challenge is to maintain
consciousness throughout the taking thereof.

There is no challenge in balancing the same binomial equations over and over
and over again.  There is no challenge is learning to print your name on a
screen in BASIC, or PASCAL for that matter.

There is no challenge in being spoonfed such little bits of information as to
make it almost not worth one's while to even bother continuing education.

The lack of challenge, the minute bits of knowledge actually given to us, is
like a stake through our hearts.  We are curious...So intensely curious that
we border on being nosy...They teach us NOTHING in schools.  What is passed
off as education is nothing more than learning by rote.  They pound the same
things into our heads, the things we learned the first time they pounded it,
and they pound and they pound, as if trying to knock our thirst for knowledge
right out of our heads!

We HAVE to be curious because we want to LEARN!  Colleges take three semesters
to cover material that should take only three WEEKS!  We cannot depend on our
educational system to quench our thirst, to satisfy our need for more and more
information!  We are addicted to information and knowledge, and our drugs are
withheld from us.

We are forced to seek our precious information and knowledge elsewhere.  We
have to find challenge somewhere, somehow, or it tears our very souls apart.
And we are, eventually, forced to enter someone's system...

Why?  Because the system is new, unknown.  How does one get in?  What can be
found within?  These are questions we can ask, with answers we must find for
ourselves...Oh, so different from school already!

Our boredom disappears as if it never existed.  Our little spark of curiosity
becomes a bonfire within our minds.  We have an open challenge to our
intellect, an opportunity to learn SOMEthing, and we cannot turn that
challenge down.

It doesn't happen like Wargames shows it.  Oh no, it is so much different.
The geek in the movie....he had it so easy.  No real hackers would exist if it
was that easy (perhaps therein lies the solution to the "problem").

No, we hack and hack at a system, like a man on a safari, clearing away the
vines of the jungle with his machete, trying to forge ahead to a destination
he cannot yet see.  We keep on, torturing our brains and pounding our fingers
on the keyboard until at last...oh at long, sweet last... we are in.

We have already learned something...we know how to get into the system, we
know what kind of security the system has.  We should, by now, have a general
idea how intelligent the operators of the system are or are not, and what kind
of information might be found within.

Something the nerd from Wargames could get into probably won't have any new AI
techniques, or other such things that help us to better our own programming
skills.

And at this point, many people assume we would then proceed to copy everything
we find and then trash the system so we could then sell the only remaining
copy of the data to the highest bidder, preferably a foreign agent or the
richest competitor of the company...

It makes no sense.  We thirst for knowledge and information, and then you can
possibly think we are going to destroy that which is sacred to us?  To take
away someone else's chance to succeed in getting in as we did?  To fuel an
already terrible reputation and increase our chances of getting caught and
thus have our lives and careers effectively ruined?

Are you really THAT..DAMN..STUPID???

We value information as much as we value our systems, which is almost as much
as we value our lives, if not more so.  We would no more destroy data than we
would chop off our own heads because we value our brains!

Most, if not all, of us think information should be exchanged freely... If
everyone is kept abreast of the newest technologies, techniques, what have
you, then everyone can benefit...The more each of us knows, the fewer past
mistakes we will repeat, the greater knowledge base we will have for future
developments.

Can you really believe that we are so hypocritical that we would SELL that
which we demand the free exchange of?

But, even as I type this, I begin to realize just why we are such a feared
group of people...

We are misunderstood by the majority.

You cannot understand someone who is driven by the thirst for knowledge, not
for money and power.  You cannot understand someone who wants to learn, and to
teach, instead of putting away more and more money into a bank account.

You cannot understand someone who judges others by what they say, think, and
do, rather than how they look or how large their income is.

You cannot understand someone who wants to be honest and sharing, instead of
lying, stealing, and cheating.

You cannot understand us because we are different.  Different in a society
where conformity is the demanded norm.  We seek to rise above the rest, and
then to pull everyone else up to the same new heights.  We seek to innovate,
to invent.  We, quite seriously, seek to boldly go where no one has gone
before.

We refuse to be herded like the sheep which make up this society.  We choose
to think for ourselves.  We demand the respect of our individuality.  And we
are slandered and shunned, condemned without a trial, because of these things.

We are misunderstood, misinterpreted, misrepresented.

All because we simply want to learn.  We simply want to increase the flow of
information and knowledge, so that EVERYONE can learn and benefit.

And that is the terrible, evil, malign thing that we truly are.  Intelligent
and inquisitive.  Seeking improvement in the lot of all mankind.  Seeking
equality.  Seeking respect for individual freedom.

Oppression is our only reward....yet if it were not for people like us, all of
you who wake up each day to an alarm clock, or drive to work in your fine new
car after cutting on your security system, while drinking that cup of coffee
you didn't have to get up to prepare, would still be living in a cave,
somewhere near Africa, grunting and reproducing, eating the raw meat of some
beast you hunted down with clubs, trying to ignore the cold that seeps in
through the animal skins you wear, and wondering when some curious person with
some intelligence, creativity, and ingenuity would come along and invent the
wheel.

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
