------------------------------

From:      Moderators
Subject:   Len Rose Funds--A Humanitarian Necessity
Date:      November 2, 1990

********************************************************************
***  CuD #2.10: File 2 of 9: Len Rose Funds--Humanitarianism     ***
********************************************************************

Len Rose has been released from DuPage County Jail through the successful
efforts of Sheldon Zenner to reduce the original $50,000 bond to $10,000.  An
anonymous benefactor posted the bond.

Many of us feel that Len has, for some reason, been the victim of law
enforcement excesses in "hacker-hunting." He had begun to put his life back
together and had obtained a job with Interactive Systems Corporation. He
worked there a week before being terminated for reasons that are not yet
clear.

Len remains in Naperville, Ill., without a job. He is eligible for minimal
social service benefits. However, he is currently unable to afford even the
fare for public transportation between Naperville and his attorney in
Chicago. Although there are individuals who have taken an interest in the
legal issues involved in his situation, he has no means of providing for his
wife and two young children. The holiday season is a lousy time to be in this
situation.

Sheldon Zenner, the attorney who successfully defended Craig Neidorf, has
agreed to channel donations to Len for those wishing to support him.  *THIS IS
NOT* a legal defense fund, but humanitarian assistance to provide food, rent,
and utilities for wife and family.  Contributing even a few dollars, the cost
of renting a video tape, is one means of supporting one who appears to be
bearing the brunt of the hostility of government toward the CU.

                 Len Rose Donation
                 c/o Sheldon Zenner
                 c/o Katten, Muchin and Zavis
                 525 W. Monroe, Suite 1600
                 Chicago, IL  60606

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
