------------------------------

From: Gene Spafford <spaf@CS.PURDUE.EDU>
Subject: Comments on your comments on Len Rose
Date: Sat, 30 Mar 91 14:41:02 EST

********************************************************************
***  CuD #3.14: File 2 of 6: Comments on Len Rose Articles       ***
********************************************************************

{Moderators' comment: Spaf just sent his latest book, PRACTICAL UNIX
SECURITY, co-authored with Simson Garfinkel to the publishers
(O'Reilly and Associates ((the Nutshell Handbook people). It's
approximately 475 pages and will available in mid-May. From our
reading of the table of contents, and from preview comments
("definitive," destined to be the "standard reference"), it looks like
something well-worth the $29.95 investment.}

There is little doubt that law enforcement has sometimes been
overzealous or based on ignorance.  That is especially true as
concerns computer-related crimes, although it is not unique to that
arena. Reporting of some of these incidents has also been incorrect.
Obviously, we all wish to act to prevent future such abuses,
especially as they apply to computers.

However, that being the case does not mean that everyone accused under
the law is really innocent and the target of "political" persecution.
That is certainly not reality; in some cases the individuals charged
are clearly at fault.  By representing all of them as innocents and
victims, you further alienate the moderates who would otherwise be
sympathetic to the underlying problems.  By trying to represent every
individual charged with computer abuse as an innocent victim, you are
guilty of the same thing you condemn law enforcement of when they
paint all "hackers" as criminals.

In particular, you portray Len Rose as an innocent whose life has been
ruined through no fault of his own, and who did nothing to warrant
Federal prosecution.  That is clearly not the case.  Len has
acknowledged that he was in possession of, and trafficing in, source
code he knew was proprietary.  He even put multiple comments in the
code he modified stating that, and warning others not to get caught
with it.  The patch he made would surreptitiously collect passwords
and store them in a hidden file in a public directory for later use.
The argument that this patch could be used for system security is
obviously bogus; a system admin would log these passwords to a
protected, private file, not a hidden file in a public directory.
Further, your comments about having root access are not appropriate,
either, for a number of reasons -- sometimes, root access can be
gained temporarily without the password, so a quick backdoor is all
that can be planted.  Usually, crackers like to find other ways on
that aren't as likely to be monitored as "root", so getting many user
passwords is a good idea.  Finally, if passwords got changed, this
change would still allow them to find new ways in, as long as the
trojan wasn't found.

The login changes were the source of the fraud charge.  It is
certainly security-related, and the application of the law appears to
be appropriate.  By the comments Len made in the code, he certainly
knew what he was doing, and he knew how the code was likely to be
used: certainly not as a security aid.  As somebody with claimed
expertise in Unix as a consultant, he surely knew the consequences of
distributing this patched code.

An obvious claim when trying to portray accused individuals as victims
is that their guilty pleas are made under duress to avoid further
difficulties for their family or some other third party.  You made
that claim about Len in your posting.  However, a different
explanation is just as valid -- Len and his lawyers realized that he
was guilty and the evidence was too substantial, and it would be more
beneficial to Len to plead guilty to one charge than take a chance
against five in court.  I am inclined to believe that both views are
true in this case.

Your comments about Len's family and career are true enough, but they
don't mean anything about his guilt or innocence, do they?  Are bank
robbers or arsonists innocent because they are the sole means of
support for their family?  Should we conclude they are "political"
victims because of their targets?  Just because the arena of the
offenses involves computers does not automatically mean the accused is
innocent of the charges.  Just because the accused has a family which
is inconvenienced by the accused serving a possible jail term does
not mean the sentence should be suspended.

Consider that Len was under Federal indictment for the login.c stuff,
then got the job in Illinois and knowingly downloaded more source code
he was not authorized to access (so he has confessed).  Does this
sound like someone who is using good judgement to look out for his
family and himself?  It is a pity that Len's family is likely to
suffer because of Len's actions.  However, I think it inappropriate to
try and paint Len as a victim of the system.  He is a victim of his
own poor judgement.  Unfortunately, his family has been victimized by
Len, too.

I share a concern of many computer professionals about the application
of law to computing, and the possible erosion of our freedoms.
However, I also have a concern about the people who are attempting to
abuse the electronic frontier and who are contributing to the decline
in our freedoms.  Trying to defend the abusers is likely to result in
a loss of sympathy for the calls to protect the innocent, too.  I
believe that one reason the EFF is still viewed by some people as a
"hacker defense fund" is because little publicity has been given to
the statements about appropriate laws punishing computer abusers;
instead, all the publicity has been given to their statements about
defending the accused "hackers."

In the long term, the only way we will get the overall support we need
to protect innocent pursuits is to also be sure that we don't condone
or encourage clearly illegal activities.  Groups and causes are judged
by their icons, and attempts to lionize everyone accused of computer
abuse is not a good way to build credibility -- especially if those
people are clearly guilty of those abuses.  The Neidorf case is
probably going to be a rallying point in the future.  The Steve
Jackson Games case might be, once the case is completed (if it ever
is).  However, I certainly do not want to ask people to rally around
the cases of Robert Morris or Len Rose as examples of government
excess, because I don't think they were, and neither would a
significant number of reasonable people who examine the cases.

I agree that free speech should not be criminalized.  However, I also
think we should not hide criminal and unethical behavior behind the
cry of "free speech."   Promoting freedoms without equal promotion of
the responsibility behind those freedoms does not lead to a greater
good.  If you cry "wolf" too often, people ignore you when the wolf is
really there.

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************

