

  ****************************************************************************
                  >C O M P U T E R   U N D E R G R O U N D<
                                >D I G E S T<
              ***  Volume 3, Issue #3.00 (January 6, 1991)   **
  ****************************************************************************

MODERATORS:   Jim Thomas / Gordon Meyer  (TK0JUT2@NIU.bitnet)
ARCHIVISTS:   Bob Krause / Alex Smith / Bob Kusumoto
BYTEMASTER:  Brendan Kehoe

USENET readers can currently receive CuD as alt.society.cu-digest.
Anonymous ftp sites: (1) ftp.cs.widener.edu (2) cudarch@chsun1.uchicago.edu
E-mail server: archive-server@chsun1.uchicago.edu.

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.  CuD material may be reprinted as long as the source is
cited.  Some authors, however, do copyright their material, and those
authors should be contacted for reprint permission.
It is assumed that non-personal mail to the moderators may be reprinted
unless otherwise specified. Readers are encouraged to submit reasoned
articles relating to the Computer Underground.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent the
            views of the moderators. Contributors assume all responsibility
            for assuring that articles submitted do not violate copyright
            protections.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

------------------------------

From: "Brenda J. Allen (303) 492-0273" <ALLEN_B@CUBLDR.COLORADO.EDU>
Subject: Gender-Neutral Language
Date: Wed, 2 Jan 1991 14:03 MST

********************************************************************
***  CuD #3.00: File 3 of 6: Gender-Neutral Language             ***
********************************************************************

The Dark Adept's article (CuD #2.10, File 9) on In-House Security Problems
was informative and insightful.  However, I was appalled by the author's
consistent and flagrant use of masculine pronouns and sex-linked nouns to
refer to persons (hackers, system operators, employees) who could be either
male or female.  Although hackers and system operators traditionally have
been men, women also are assuming those roles.  Moreover, employees who use
computers certainly comprise both genders.  Therefore, references to users
as males (e.g., "employees often choose passwords such as their wife's
maiden name") are particularly inappropriate and sexist.

I am not accusing the author of intentional discrimination against females.
Rather, I believe that he or she may not be aware of the implications and
ramifications of gender-biased language.  Language has the power to shape
thought, reinforce biases, and perpetuate stereotypes.  Consequently,
omitting mention of females in a discussion about computer-related
activities may help to sustain the impression of male domination of that
area of our lives.  Moreover, such oversights may send the covert message
that some persons wish to maintain such an image, to discount contributions
by women, and/or to discourage female participation.

Therefore, I encourage everyone to become more thoughtful of their choice
of words and more sensitive to issues regarding gender.  This seems
particularly crucial in the contemporary forum of electronic discourse.  As
we pave new paths, we must assume responsibility for changing old language
habits.  Also, we should strive to avoid sending implicit and explicit
messages regarding females and their roles in computer science and related
fields.

On a positive note, I've observed such awareness in other CuD files.  For
instance, job announcements usually cite both genders, and Alan Wexelblat
recently qualified a reference to philosophers as males by noting that
women had been systematically excluded from that area of study.

Guidelines for avoiding the use of male-only pronouns include the
following: reword sentences to eliminate unnecessary gender pronouns;
alternate the use of female and male pronouns and nouns; recase sentences
into plural forms (e.g., "they" or "we"); use neutral terms like "one,"
"you," "an individual," etc. instead of "he" or "she."  Another way to
avoid subtle sexism is to substitute asexual words and phrases for
man-words (e.g., "spouse's name" instead of "wife's maiden name").

Although applying these and other guidelines may be challenging and
somewhat time-consuming, it is imperative that we make the effort to
acknowledge the changing shape of our society as women continue to occupy
positions previously reserved for men.

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************
