------------------------------

Date: 12 Oct 91 11:21:19 CDT
From: Moderators <tk0jut2@mvs.cso.niu.edu>
Subject: General On-Line and Print Resources

The following "phreak/hacker" newsletters and magazines provide
insights into the culture of the CU. Some are defunct, others are
still publishing. An (*) indicates continued publication.  (E)
indicates published in electronic format, (H) indicates hardcopy.
Most are available in the CuD ftp archives.

TAP (*H): General phreak/hack information. Contact TAP, PO Box 20264
Louisville, KY 40250.

ATI (*E): Political oriented posts. Appears every few months.  Contact
gzero@tronsbox.xei.com

NIA (Network Information Access) (*E): News digest and p/h
information.

NIA (*E): National Information Access, appears every few months.
Contact nuchat!samp@uunet.uu.net.

P/Hun (E): Five issues appeared. Primarily technical information.

PIRATE (E): News related to software piracy. Five issues appeared.

LoD/TJ (E): Hacker technical journal with occasional news.  Four issue
appeared.

Weltanschaaung (*E): Political and editorial information focusing on
cyber issues.  Began August, 1991. Contact fox@nuchat.sccsi.com

2600--The Hacker Quarterly (*H): Quarterly issue devoted to
hacker-related technical information and news. Contact
emmanuel@well.sf.ca.us

Boardwatch Magazine (*H): Published monthly; Billed as a "guide to the
world of online services," focus is on BBS world.  Essential reading
for serious modemers. Contact jrickard@teal.csn.org

MONDO 2000 (*H): A slick, "postmodernist" oriented magazine, Mondo
covers music, art, and other cultural topics as well as cyber culture.
Contact rusirius@well.sf.ca.us

EFFECTOR (*HE): The newsletter of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
Mainly covers EFF activities and summaries of its involvement in
various projects. Contact eff@org

RISKS Digest (*E): An on-line, moderated newsgroup identifying
computer risks to society. Available through Usenet.  Contact
risks@csl.sri.com

TELECOM Digest (*E):  A on-line, moderated newsgroup focusing on
telecommunications issues and the related social, ethical, and
political problems.  Available through Usenet. Contact
telecom@eecs.nwu.edu

CuD (*EH): On-line magazine/journal specializing in legal, ethical,
and social issues related to the computer culture. Available through
Usenet. Contact tk0jut1@mvs.cso.niu.edu.

CuD ftp archives (*E): A collection of legal and academic papers and
phreak/hacker/pirate 'zines and newsletters. Collection also includes
a variety of state and federal laws and university policies along with
other CU-related documents.  Contact:  chsun1.spc.uchicago.edu or
ftp.cs.widener.edu

VIRUS-L Digest:  on-line moderated newsgroup for discussions of
computer viruses.  Available through Usenet. Contact virus-l@lehiibm1

Comp.org.eff.talk (*E): Unmoderated newsgroup for discussion of issues
related to cyberspace. Available through Usenet.

Computer/Law Journal (*H): Legal journal devoted to all legal aspects
of computer technology, including security, privacy, and copyright.

Chalisti (*E): German hacker newsletter (written in German) covering
European hacker news and technology.

