Computer Underground Digest--Sat Jul 13 01:10:10 CDT 1991 (Vol #3.25)

         Moderators: Jim Thomas and Gordon Meyer (TK0JUT2@NIU.BITNET)

Today's Contents:
          Moderators' Corner
          Spaf's Response to Bill Vajk
          Comments to Bill Vajk's posting in CuD #3.22 (T. Klotzbach)
          LOD Members for Comsec Computer Security (News Reprint)
          Alcor Email (ECPA) Case Settled (Keith Henson)
          NIST announces public-key digital signature standard (gnu)
          Secret Service Pays Hacker Call (Reprint from Newsbytes)

Administratia:

           ARCHIVISTS: ROB KRAUSE, BOB KUSUMOTO, AND BRENDAN KEHOE

CuD is available via electronic mail at no cost. Printed copies are
available by subscription.  Single copies are available for the costs
of reproduction and mailing.

Issues of CuD can be found in the Usenet alt.society.cu-digest news
group, on CompuServe in DL0 and DL4 of the IBMBBS SIG, DL1 of LAWSIG,
and DL0 and DL12 of TELECOM, by FidoNet file request from 1:100/345,
on Genie, on the PC-EXEC BBS at (414) 789-4210, and by anonymous ftp
>from ftp.cs.widener.edu, chsun1.uchicago.edu, and
dagon.acc.stolaf.edu.  To use the U. of Chicago email server, send
mail with the subject "help" (without the quotes) to
archive-server@chsun1.uchicago.edu.

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.  CuD material may  be reprinted as long as the source
is cited.  Some authors do copyright their material, and they should
be contacted for reprint permission.  It is assumed that non-personal
mail to the moderators may be reprinted unless otherwise specified.
Readers are encouraged to submit reasoned articles relating to the
Computer Underground.  Articles are preferred to short responses.
Please avoid quoting previous posts unless absolutely necessary.

DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent
            the views of the moderators. Digest contributors assume all
             responsibility for ensuring that articles submitted do not
             violate copyright protections.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: July 13, 1991
From: From the Moderators
Subject: Moderators' Corner

We're experimenting with a new format to conform with RFC-1153 that we
hope will allow CuD to explode in most mailers.  Thanks to John
Stanley for his suggestions, and especially to an anonymous Texas
sysop (whose initials are BI and can be reached at
bei@dogface.austin.tx.us) for the patience to lead us by the hand in
explaining the procedure. Please let us know if it works (or if it
doesn't). If we can get it working properly, we will maintain both the
original format for files and the new one for mailers. So pass back
your suggestions and criticisms.

