
Computer Underground Digest--Fri Sept 8, 1991 (Vol #3.32)

       Moderators: Jim Thomas and Gordon Meyer (TK0JUT2@NIU.BITNET)
              -> SPECIAL ISSUE: REVIEW OF _CYBERPUNK_ <-

CONTENTS, #3.32 (September 8, 1991)
File 1--CYBERPUNK Review
File 2--Review of _CYBERPUNK_
File 3--_CYBERPUNK_ Review
File 4--Newsweek review CYBERPUNK
File 5--Review of _CYBERPUNK_

Issues of CuD can be found in the Usenet alt.society.cu-digest news
group, on CompuServe in DL0 and DL4 of the IBMBBS SIG, DL1 of LAWSIG,
and DL0 and DL12 of TELECOM, on Genie, on the PC-EXEC BBS at (414)
789-4210, and by anonymous ftp from ftp.cs.widener.edu,
chsun1.spc.uchicago.edu, and dagon.acc.stolaf.edu.  To use the U. of
Chicago email server, send mail with the subject "help" (without the
quotes) to archive-server@chsun1.spc.uchicago.edu.

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.  CuD material may  be reprinted as long as the source
is cited.  Some authors do copyright their material, and they should
be contacted for reprint permission.  It is assumed that non-personal
mail to the moderators may be reprinted unless otherwise specified.
Readers are encouraged to submit reasoned articles relating to the
Computer Underground.  Articles are preferred to short responses.
Please avoid quoting previous posts unless absolutely necessary.

DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent
            the views of the moderators. Digest contributors assume all
            responsibility for ensuring that articles submitted do not
            violate copyright protections.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: 08 Sep 91 15:20:16 EDT
From: Gordon Meyer <72307.1502@COMPUSERVE.COM>
Subject: File 1--CYBERPUNK Review

((Moderators Note: REVIEWS OF:  CYBERPUNK: OUTLAWS AND HACKERS ON THE
COMPUTER FRONTIER.  by Katie Hafner and John Markoff.  New York:
Simon and Schuster. 336 pp. $22.95 pb.

The Hafner and Markoff book has not, to our knowledge, received a bad,
or even mediocre, review, so we invited a few readers to see if the
hype is justified. It is, but don't take our word for it. Grab a copy
and read it!))

Reviewed by: Gordon R. Meyer
September 8, 1991
++++++++++++++++++

The promotional materials for _CYBERPUNK_ describe the book using
these words:

     A fascinating and revealing account of the world of hackers
     and the threat they pose in the age of computer networks.
                                (....)
     With society completely dependent on computer networks,
     Hafner and Markoff reveal how real a threat these hackers
     represent, and address what we should or can do about them.

While I certainly agree that _CYBERPUNK_ is fascinating and revealing,
I found little about "the world of hackers," and even less about what
should be done about 'them'.  I realize authors often have little, if
any, control over the jacket copy of their books, however as this is a
mass-market publication the jacket copy does indeed play a role in
influencing the perception and positioning of this volume in
marketplace.  Also, as an observational aside, it is interesting to
note the phrase "...what we should or can do about them."   A small
semantic twist that focuses attention on those who engage in the
behavior, and not the problem itself.

_CYBERPUNK_ focuses on three "infamous" computer hackers that have
risen into the public consciousness in the last few years.  The
stories of Kevin Mitnick, "Pengo," and Robert Morris are presented in
a fast-paced, narrative manner.  It is a very enjoyable romp through
their lives, and the events that brought them into the public eye.

The first chapter of the book concerns Mitnick, and is entitled
"Kevin: The dark-side hacker."  As indicated in the authors' reference
notes, they were unable to contact Mitnick directly, therefore this
chapter appears to construct events based on third and second-party
interviews, and police/court documents.  Despite this handicap, Hafner
and Markoff have created a very intriguing narrative of some of
Mitnick's activities.  It is unfortunate that they were unable to talk
to Mitnick himself, as a more balanced, or rather "inside,"
perspective on the events would improve this chapter.  In some ways it
is a bit like reading a historical account of a person who is long
since dead.  Here's hoping that someday Mitnick will himself fill in
some of the missing parts of the story.

It was probably a wise decision to begin the book with the Mitnick
story.  It certainly has the most "common man" angle to it.  Mitnick,
while a skilled computerist, is closer to the average 'man on the
street' then Pengo, who was involved with the KGB, or Morris, son of a
computer scientist.  Mitnick, excluding his computer related activity,
is not unlike other young men in many respects.  This leads the reader
to conclude that anyone, perhaps the kid next door, could also be
involved in Mitnick-like activity.  And certainly Mitnick's propensity
to taking computerized revenge against his 'enemies' will entertain
those who would daydream of, but never enact, such schemes.

This chapter does exhibit one peculiar tendency, that was thankfully
absent from the rest of the chapters.  Specifically, there is somewhat
of a focus on Kevin's weight, and on the the authors, was an active
phone phreak/hacker in the early days of the computer underground.
She plays a prominent role in the first part of the Mitnick story,
then quickly fades from the scene.  This was puzzling, as Hafner and
Markoff treat us to stories of her days as a prostitute, (and the time
she was thrown out of drug rehab for fellating a staff member in the
restroom), then after numerous descriptions of her "unusually large
hips and buck teeth" she quietly fades from the story, exiting into a
life of professional tournament poker.  While physical descriptions
are important in helping the reader form mental images of the
characters, the focus on was a bit too sharp on the physical
attributes of the actors in Mitnick's story.  Luckily this propensity
was dropped as the book continued.  However, I'm still hoping for
_CYBERPUNK 2: The Return Of Thunder_ .

An interesting picture emerges from the story of the police
investigation into Mitnick.  CuD readers will be familiar with the
steps taken by Secret Service agents executing warrants in the Sun
Devil investigations.  In Mitnick's story we are treated to the image
of the L.A. Police following Mitnick from classroom to classroom, and
various fast-food restaurants, using a "tag team" of twelve officers,
sometimes leaping from roof top to roof top, or driving at speeds in
excess of one hundred miler per hour, all to ensure they didn't lose
sight of the evil hacker.

Mitnick's story ends with his arrest, by the FBI, in a parking garage.
While we are later given a brief postscript stating that he currently
lives in Las Vegas, I would was left wanting more regarding not only
the trial, but also his wife Bonnie Mitnick, his
co-hacker-turned-snitch Lenny, and the various other people connected
with Mitnick's story.  Admittedly, I found the section on Mitnick to
be the most interesting aspect of _CYBERPUNK_, and it left me wanting
more.  Others may be more than satisfied with what is already offered.

However, I did not have the same feeling regarding the story of Hans
Heinrich, "Pengo and Project Equalizer."   I felt the story was
well-covered, with adequate details regarding Pengo's association with
"Hagbard Celine," all the way up to the ensuing trial, and aftermath.

Hafner and Markoff present essentially the same story as Cliff Stoll's
_The Cuckoo's Egg_, but from the other side of the phone, so to speak.
It also brings some interesting questions to light regarding the
interaction of the FBI, CIA, NSA, West German officials, and Laszlo,
the Philadelphian who ultimately requested Stoll's bogus SDINet
information.  Fascinating stuff, and after reading this section I
immediately wanted to re-read Stoll's book, just to form a better
picture of the situation.

For anyone wanting to understand what all the fuss was over the
incident described in _The Cuckoo's Egg_, but not wanting to read
Stoll's account, _CYBERPUNK_ offers a cogent, and equally compelling
summary of the events.  Anyone who has read Stoll's book, should be
equally interested in this section as well.

The final focus of _CYBERPUNK_ is on Robert T. Morris, author of the
so-called "Internet Worm."  Here the authors' offer some insight into
the Morris family, and the actions taken by Robert and his associates
as the Worm was working its way throughout the Internet.  As an
accounting of the trial, and documentation of the questions and issues
the Justice Department needed to confront in attending to this case,
it is more than worthwhile reading.  There has been much written on
the actions of the Worm, and the aftermath of its release.  Hafner and
Markoff give us a peek behind the scenes and illustrate that many of
the questions and issues raised by the actions of Morris, are as of
yet unanswered.

In conclusion, _CYBERPUNK_ is very enjoyable and quite entertaining.
I highly recommend it to CuD readers, it is worth the minimal time
required to read it.  I found myself disappointed that it offered no
insights into the computer underground per se, and in fact I would
argue that it is not a book about the computer underground, or as the
dust jacket puts it "the computer frontier" at all.  It is an
interesting account of three talented individuals, who each happen to
have used computers as their tools of choice.  Is _CYBERPUNK_ a
definitive peek into the world of computer hackers?  It is not.  Does
it provide insight and raise questions for the student of the computer
underground?  Absolutely.  Read it.


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253
