------------------------------

From: Various
Subject: From the Mailbag
Date: 21 June, 1991

********************************************************************
***  CuD #3.22: File 2 of 3: From the Mailbag                  ***
********************************************************************

From: an288@CLEVELAND.FREENET.EDU(Mark Hittinger)
Subject: Elaboration and Response to Computer Computing
Date: Sun, 16 Jun 91 14:42:01 -0400

> These are D.W. James main points from his CuD 3.21 message:

1. College computing is still managed by centralized MIS, and in an
   unfavorable manner.  They aren't dead yet.
2. Centralized MIS has monopolistic control of the use of network
   bandwidth.
3. College CC administrations dance to NSF's tune.  (he who has the
   gold ect)
4. Centralized MIS can arbitrarily stop something if it appears
questionable.

Mark's comment:

(A seasoned MIS type would put extra effort into quietly stopping
 anything that a journalist or politician could construe as
 questionable!  People should not be surprised by this, it is a
 standard reflex for a bureaucrat.  I mentioned in my article that if
 they could not cover up a hacking event that they would exaggerate it
 instead.  I know it is upsetting when something neat gets quietly
 axed, however, think of the damage that is done when the
 administrator is forced to exaggerate.  They are forced because they
 feel a need to protect their job and reputation.  We shouldn't really
 blame them too much, after all, it will be their red face on the TV
 if something in their domain makes the news!)

Here is my response (related to my CuD 3.20 article - renaissance ect)

I could write another article on the network thing by itself.  It is
true that computing administrations have moved towards selling
networking as opposed to computing.  It is kind of like "Custer's last
stand" or should I say "job".

You know that the demand for bandwidth is growing at a rapid rate.  It
is growing far faster than the budget money to fund it.  What is the
result of these two factors?  First, there are going to be more
network disappointments such as the one mentioned by D.W. James, that
is, the shutdown of various grey area network "services".  Second, the
available bandwidth will soon be so clogged as to render the service
unusable.  It is kind of like the old timesharing machines.  No - I'm
not broadcasting a death-of-usenet or death-of-internet message.  I'm
just saying that a squeeze is coming and it might be a good idea to
get out of the way.  It is just a natural process that we've seen
before in the timesharing racket. People are transmitting images and
sound now!  Its not just ASCII for breakfast any more!  Were the
current production networks and hosts designed for this kind of thing?
Our desktop machines (and what we want to do with them) have already
outgrown yesterday's networks.

(So not only do we need a new multi-tasking DOS from Bill, and an
 elegant new BOX from Ken, we need a new NET.  I was quite pleased
 with Apple's recent filing with the FCC for a personal radio net.  Be
 ready, they are heading in the right direction.  Wouldn't it just
 kill ya to see Apple make a bunch of money again?)

Technology can come to the rescue in networking too.  It is just a
cost issue more than anything else.  Centralized computing was created
when individuals could not afford computers.  Centralized network
management exists because yesterday's networks are too expensive for
individuals to fund.  Today there are alternatives to the network
supplied by your college.  You can totally bypass these guys today!
It is just a matter of money and the costs are dropping like a rock.
D.W. James says that MIS isn't dead, however, I argue the clock is
sure ticking fast, and that was one of the points of my initial
article.  The case for MIS survival is hopeless.  The case for hackers
is that we'd better get busy thinking about what kind of 20 megabit
UHF cellular network software we'll need on our used 50 mip laptop.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

From:   dalton.spence@CANREM.UUCP(Dalton Spence)
Subject: can it happen in canada?
Date:   Wed, 5 Jun 1991 20:00:00 -0400

I am new to the electronic frontier, a greenhorn if you will.  As a
programmer of midrange IBM systems (S/36 and AS/400) for many years, I
thought, sitting here in Canada, I was more objective about the events
of the last year than most Americans could be.  After all, it wasn't
MY constitutional rights that had been threatened (YET).  And since
most of my career has been spent working for small software companies,
the idea of unauthorized intruders in the systems I was working with
frightened and repelled me.  Fortunately, so far the systems I have
worked on have been isolated from the outside world (much like I have
been), so hackers have not been a problem (YET).

However, I will not become TOO complacent, since the government of
Canada has a history of following the lead of the United States, even
when it would serve us better NOT to.  I am worried that the recent
virus infestations of government computers, as described in the
attached article from "Toronto Computes!" magazine (June 3, Vol. 7,
#5, p. 3), may act as a catalyst for a crackdown on Canadian bulletin
boards.  Which would be a shame, since I am just getting the hang of
using them.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

VIRUSES INFEST FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

By LAWRENCE BRUNER

Virus infection in computers is growing out of control. They're
doubling once every three months in the federal government, said a
source who asked not to be identified.

She said there have been about 30 cases of virus infection in the last
several months and there will probably be about 60 before the end of
summer.

"We have to do something about it and if we don't we'll be swamped,"
she said.

Viruses have occurred at the department of external affairs, the RCMP,
the Supreme Court and Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd. But the viruses
aren't concentrated in any departments or agencies, occurring randomly
throughout the government, she said.

The viruses range from merely annoying to very damaging. In the
annoying category is a virus that creates an on-screen ping pong ball
about the size of a cursor. The ball bounces up and down the screen,
but doesn't destroy any data. More damaging is the Stoned virus which
freezes the system and displays the message, "Your disk has been
stoned. Legalize marijuana."

In some cases the Stoned virus makes it impossible to reboot the
system without purging all the software and loading back-up programs.
Another virus called Dark Avenger destroys data.  Most of the viruses
infiltrate the federal government when a civil servant gets software
>from bulletin board systems.

"A civil servant might see some statistic or an article he needs on a
BBS and then downloads it," said the source.  One of the viruses was
created by a 14-year-old boy living in Hull, Quebec, Ottawa's twin
city, but most originate in the United States. Viruses are doubling in
the U.S. government every two months, said the source.

"Things are bigger and better there, so more's happening. They have a
bigger population and access to more things."

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************

