------------------------------

From: Gordon Meyer <72307.1502@COMPUSERVE.COM>
Subject: MONDO -- GREAT NEW 'ZINE!
Date: 10 Apr 91 01:24:08 EDT

********************************************************************
***  CuD #3.14: File 6 of 6: MONDO -- Great new 'Zine!           ***
********************************************************************

After hearing many good things about a magazine called "Mondo 2000" we
were pleased to finally locate a copy on a SF Bay area newsstand.  In
the interest of helping to spread the word about this very interesting
publication we pres-ent a brief overview of the Winter 1991 issue.

"Mondo 2000" (issue 3), from Fun City MegaMedia, is a sort of
cyper-punk/PoMo/Discordian publication covering diverse (and
fascinating) topics such as designer drugs, a Congressional assault on
the Constitution, growth hormones, cybernetic jewelry, House Music,
computer graphics, Frank Zappa's political ambitions, interviews with
Debbie Harry, Tina Weymouth & Chris Franz, and cracking Macintosh
software.  There is a lot of material here (about 175 pages all total)
and there is sure to be something to interest most anyone.  The
"reader mail" column indicates that past issues have covered vir-tual
reality, UFO's, and The Church of the Sub-Genius.

In addition the above topics, issue three also contains a number of
articles of direct relevance to CuD.  Namely, articles on the LoD,
EFF, and the CU in general.  [How's that for a plethora of acronyms in
one sentence?! -GRM] In the "Hackers and Crackers" section we find the
following selections:

   *    "Do G-Men Dream of Electric Sheep?"  by R.U. Sirius and George
Gleason (pp 40-43)  This article essentially presents a time line of
CU related events beginning with Hackers' 4.0 misrepresentation by
CBS, thru the Internet worm, NuPrometheus, Operation Sun Devil, and
Zod's bust.  In all, 22 of some of the most significant events are
chronicled and the article serve as a handy, and disturbing, summary
of the last couple of years.

   *    "Civilizing the Electronic Frontier: an interview with Mitch
Kapor and John Barlow of the Electronic Frontier Foundation" by David
Gans and R.U. Sirius (pp45-49)  Kapor and Barlow discuss the FBI's
investigation of the NuPrometheus League, the origin of the EFF, and
the future of the law and cyberspace.

   *    "Synergy Speaks: Goodbye Banks, Goodbye Telephones, Goodbye
Welfare Checks" by Michael Synergy (pp 51-54)  A self-professed
cyberpunk offers brief comments on a variety of topics such as
viruses, blackmail, the EFF, modern justice, criminal evidence, and
many more.  Synergy's comments aren't in depth, but present views on a
wide enough selection of topics for someone un-familiar with the
movement to get an idea of the cyberpunk philosophy.

   *    "Freaked by Phrack: an interview with Craig Neidorf" by John
Perry Barlow (pp 55-56)  An extract from on online interview with
Neidorf, former publisher of Phrack, Inc.   Neidorf discusses the
nature of Phrack, his trial, and effect it has had on his life.

   *    "A Message to You From Legion of Doom Member 'The Mentor'" by
The Mentor (p 58)   An edited version of "The Conscience of a Hacker"
or "Hacker Manifesto" as widely published in Phrack, CuD, Thrasher,
and a number of other places.

   *    "On the Road to Chaos in East Berlin" by Morgan Russell (pp
60-63) A gonzo-esque account of the Chaos Computer Club Kongress in
East Berlin. Also mentions the squatters' movement and The Foundation
for the Advancement of Il-legal Knowledge (AKILKNO).

   *    "The Worlds Oldest Secret Conspiracy: Fronted by Steve Jackson
Games, Inc." by Gareth Branwyn (pp 64-67)  An interview with Steve
Jackson, concern-ing his business and Secret Service raids brought
about by _GURPS Cyberpunk_.  An excerpt from the book is included.

   *    "Guess Work: an interview with August Bequai" by Gareth
Branwyn (pp 70-71)  This is a particularly enlightening interview with
Bequai, a well-published expert of computer crime.  Although brief,
Bequai has some 'inter-esting' things to say.  Here are some excerpts,
in the same question/answer format found in the original article:

        Mondo: ...what do you think about the criticism that, with
Operation Sun Devil, they've [the feds] unconstitutionally confiscated
equipment such as public bulletin boards?  This sort of thing has
struck fear in the hearts of many systems operators.  The seizure of
the Steve Jackson Games BBS is a case in point.  They were, by the
admission of the Secret Service, not the target of the investigation.
And yet their BBS was confiscated.

        Bequai: Then they have the option to go to court and challenge
it. We have laws and legal system, and they work!

        Mondo: If you have the resources!

        Bequai: You don't necessarily need a lot of resources.  It
doesn't take a heck of a lot of money to go to court and challenge
some of these things.

        Mondo:  You're telling me it doesn't take a lot of time and
money to challenge the US Secret Service!?

        Bequai:  No sir, it does not.  If you hire a small firm, no.

        [...]

        Mondo:  What sort of groups do you lecture to:

        Bequai: Computer professionals, security professionals,
executive-types, management-types, supervisors, lawyers, government
officials.

        Mondo:  In a recent speech, you stated that "Millions of
Americans find themselves the victims of computer crimes" and "The
public is called upon to pick up the tab for billions of dollars in
annual losses...at the hands of computer criminals, hackers, and
pranksters."  [...]  Where did you get those figures?

        Bequai: Oh, that's just guess work.  White collar crime runs in
excess of a hundred billion dollars.  My sympathy goes to the public.
I'm not so in-terested in technophiles who think they have an inherent
right to do whatever they feel.  I'm concerned for the average Joe
Blow American.

Bequai is an oft-quoted expert when anti-CU types discuss the hacker
underground.  This article was particularly insightful, and in many
ways makes the pursuit of MONDO 2000 worthwhile in and of itself.

   *    "Phreaks R Us: an interview with hacker publishers Emmanuel
Goldstein of 2600 and Rop Gonggrijp of Hack-Tic" by R.U. Sirius and
George Gleason (pp 74-76)  Goldstein and Gonggrijp discuss their
journals, the CU movement, and freedom of information.

In conclusion, MONDO 2000 (issue 3) is worth searching out.  It is a
more than worthy successor to Reality Hackers, and offers many
articles of interest.  It is one of the most fascinating and
refreshing publications to hit the stands, and will be very enjoyable
to any CU-attentive individual.
        Mondo 2000 (published quarterly)
        (subscriptions)
        Fun City MegaMedia
        PO Box 10171
        Berkeley, CA 94709-5171 USA
        (correspondence)
        PO Box 40271
        Berkeley, CA 94704
        Fax: 415.649.9630   MCI Mail: MONDO2000
        $24.00 (US) for 5 issues

********************************************************************

------------------------------

                         **END OF CuD #3.14**
********************************************************************

