------------------------------

Date: Tue, 3 Sep 91 17:05:01 CDT
From: edtjda@MAGIC322.CHRON.COM(Joe Abernathy)
Subject: File 4--Houston Chronicle spacemail follow

 This story appeared on Page 1A of the Houston Chronicle on Monday,
 Sept. 2, 1991. Permission is granted for redistribution in the ACM
 Risks Digest, Patrick Townson's Telecom Digest, the newsgroup
 sci.space.shuttle, Computer Underground Digest, and the
 interesting_people mailing list. Our thanks to these groups for their
 ongoing contributions to the online community and our coverage of it.
 Please send comments and suggestions to edtjda@chron.com.

NASA severs connection
on electronic mail linkup

By JOE ABERNATHY
Copyright 1991, Houston Chronicle

Although declaring the experiment a success, NASA has called a halt to
a project by which space shuttle astronauts briefly were linked with
the nation's computer networks through electronic mail.

The e-mail experiment, conducted during the recent flight of Atlantis,
was part of a larger effort to develop computer and communications
systems for the space station Freedom, which is to be assembled during
the late 1990s.

The National Aeronautics and Space Administration cited unauthorized
access as the reason for severing the network connection, but NASA
officials did not provide details.

The space agency initially attempted to carry out the project in
secrecy, but word leaked out on the nation's computer networks.
Details were closely guarded because of concerns over malicious
computer hacking and astronauts' privacy.

"Hello, Earth! Greetings from the STS-43 Crew! This is the first
Applelink from space. Having a GREAT time, wish you were here!" read
the first message home. It went from Atlantis astronauts Shannon Lucid
and James Adamson to Marcia Ivins, a shuttle communicator at Johnson
Space Center.

It was the use of AppleLink -- a commercial electronic mail network
connected to the global computer matrix -- that apparently contained
the seeds of trouble.

When an AppleLink electronic mail address for the shuttle was
distributed online and then published in the Houston Chronicle, it
generated about 80 responses from well-wishers.

Although the address was created just for this purpose, the flight
director nearly pulled the plug on the project, according to Debra
Muratore, the NASA experiment manager. The project was concluded as
scheduled and declared a success.

But ultimately, it was decided, at least for now, to cease all
interaction with public computer networks. The decision eventually
could mean that NASA's premier research facility, the space station,
may not have access to its premier research communications tool, the
NASA Science Internet -- the space agency's portion of the vast
Internet global computer network.

Electronic mail, which is becoming commonplace in offices, is simply
the transmission of messages via computers to one or more people,
using electronic addresses. Users linked to the right networks can
send electronic messages or other data to specific recipients nearly
anywhere in the world -- and for a short time, could send them to
space.

"The problem was that the information had gotten leaked prematurely.
There was no problem with security," Muratore said. Even previous to
the leak of the addresss, however, the experiment was structured in
such a way that it was vulnerable to hackers, she acknowledged.

"As a result of this whole experience, at least my project plans never
to use a public (electronic) mail system again," she said.

Muratore indicated that the space agency may explore other ways of
providing "connectivity" -- communication between orbiting astronauts
and NASA's broader collection of computerized resources -- which will
become increasingly important as the use of computerized information
grows.

The decision to sever the short-lived e-mail connection has drawn
strong criticism among computer security experts and other scientists,
who charge that NASA was attempting to design "security through
obscurity."

"This is another example of an ostrich-oriented protection policy --
stick your head in the sand and pretend no one will find out what you
know," wrote Peter G. Neumann, moderator of the Association for
Computing Machinery's RISKS Digest, a respected online publication
that assesses the risks posed by technology. "Things like that don't
stay 'secret' for very long."

NASA told Newsday, but would not confirm for the Chronicle, that more
than 80 "unauthorized" messages from around the world were sent to the
Atlantis address -- which a source told the Chronicle was set up
explicitly to handle public requests for a shuttle e-mail address.
Private addresses were used for the actual experiments.

"The old 'authorization' paradox has reared its ugly head again,"
wrote Neumann, who prepared a study for NASA on the security
requirements of the space station. " 'Threatened by unauthorized
e-mail,' eh? Sending e-mail to someone REQUIRES NO AUTHORIZATION."

Muratore defended the use of secrecy as a security tool.

"I feel that that was a viable option," she said. She said operators
of AppleLink told NASA that it was impossible to keep public e-mail
from being sent to the on-orbit address, so the only option was to try
to keep it secret.

But network users questioned this viewpoint.

"Why is an e-mail system 'in jeopardy' when it receives 80 messages?
And what is an 'unauthorized user?' " asked Daniel Fischer of the
Max-Planck-Institut feur Radioastronomie, in Bonn, Germany. "Once the
system is linked up to the real world, it should expect to receive
real mail from everyone.

"If NASA can't handle that, it really shouldn't get into e-mail at
all," added Fischer, writing in an online discussion group composed of
scientists involved with the space program. "Consider that (heavy
response) a success, NASA!"

The disposition of the electronic mail sent to Atlantis is still up in
the air. A Chronicle message was not acknowledged, and no one has
reported receiving a response.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Chronicle reporter Mark Carreau contributed to this report.


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253
