------------------------------

From: Moderators
Subject: Warrants issued for Indiana and Michigan "Hackers"
Date: 18 June, 1991

********************************************************************
***  CuD #3.23: File 1 of 4: Indiana/Michigan Hackers Busted     ***
********************************************************************

{Moderators note: The following is the news release distributed
by the Indianapolis Police Department.}


NEWS RELEASE                       May 31, 1991

        _Search Warrants Served in Computer "Hacking" Scheme_

INDIANAPOLIS -- The Indianapolis Police Department, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and the United States Secret Service served search
warrants at five Indianapolis locations on Wednesday, May 29, 1991,
for computer-related equipment. The warrants were served by five teams
of law enforcement officials forming a group known as the Special
Computerized Attack Team (SCAT).

SCAT is a cooperative effort between the Indianapolis Police
Department the FBI, the Secret Service and other federal, state and
local law enforcement agencies aimed at tracking computer "hackers"
who illicitly enter the computer systems of companies in an attempt to
gain sensitive information, money, or company secrets.

The White Collar Crime Unit of IPD obtained information from the FBI
and Secret Service concerning illegal computer access to the PBX
system of an Indianapolis company. Armed with search warrants, SCAT
members confiscated computer equipment from fie Indianapolis residences
which linked several juveniles to the crime. The Indianapolis company
has experienced losses which approach $300,000. A search warrant was
served simultaneously by FBI agents, the Secret Service and Michigan
State Police in West Bloomfield, Michigan, in this same case.

Information gained from the search warrants has led police to continue
the investigation in other cities as well.

Suspects in the case are all juveniles and the investigation is
continuing to determine if the evidence collected will support
arrests. The SCAT unit is currently investigating other
computer-related crimes and hopes to send a strong message to computer
"hakers" that their illegal actions are being monitored closely bylaw
enforcement officials.

For further information, please contact Special Agent in Charge Roy
Yonkus, U.S. Secret Service (Indiana) at 317/ 639-3301; or John M.
Britt, Assistant to the Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Secret Service
(Detroit Office) at 313/ 226-6400.

********************************************************************
                           >> END OF THIS FILE <<
***************************************************************************

