
Date: July 28, 1991
From: "The Moderataors" <tk0jut2@MVS.CSO.NIU.EDU>
Subject: File 4-- "Computer Crime" paper by Brian Peretti available

Brian J. Peretti has finished the latest draft of his paper:
"Computer Crime:  Current Practices, Problems and Proposed Solutions".
Here is a brief excerpt from the introduction. The complete paper is
available in the CuD ftp sites.

++++++++++++++++++

Within   recent   years,   computer  crime   has   become  a
preoccupation with law  enforcement officials.  In  California, a
group of  West German  hackers using  phone lines  and satellite
hookups, gained  unauthorized access into  civilian and  military
computers and  stole sensitive documents  that were  sold to  the
Soviet  Union.   A  young  New York  programmer  broke  into  a
Washington computer to  run a program that he could  not run from his
personal  computer.  After  Southeastern Bell Stated  that a document
published in an  electronic publication was  valued at more than
$75,000 the publisher was arrested and brought to trial before the
discovery that  the document could be publicly  bought from the
company  for $12.6  The Chaos Computer  Club, a Hamburg, Germany,
club,  went   into  government  computers   and  access information
and gave it to reporters.  In May,  1988, the United States government
launched Operation Sun Devil, which lead to the seizure  of  23,000
computer  disks  and  40  computers.   In addition,  poor police
performance  has  also  been  blamed  on computers.

Since  its  creation,  the computer  has  become  increasing important
in society.  The law, as  in the past, has  not been able   to  evolve
as   quickly   as   the   rapidly   expanding technology.  This  lack
of movement on the  part of governments shows a lack  of understanding
with the area.  The need to create a  comprehensive  regulation   or
code  of  ethics   has  become increasing necessary.

Due   to  the   nature  of   computer   systems  and   their
transnational   connections   through   telephone   lines,   an
individual  state's action will only stop the problems associated with
computer crime if many  states join together.  The patchwork of
legislation that  exists  covers  only a  small  part of  the problem.
To  adequately address computer crime,  greater efforts must   be
made  within  the  computer  community  to  discourage unauthorized
computer access, countries must strengthen and

co-ordinated  their computer related  laws, as well  as proper
enforcement mechanism created, computer program copyright laws be
enhanced  and computer systems  should be created  to allow those who
wish to  explore computer systems which will  not disrupt the users of
computer systems.

This paper will first set out a definition of computer crime and  why
laws  or regulation  by the  computer community  must be created.
Section  II will  then discuss  the United  States law concerning
computer crime and  why it needs  to be strengthened.  Section  III
will  discuss the  proposed  Israeli computer  crime bill, Britain's
Computer Misuse  Act and  Ghana's proposed  law.  Section IV will
discuss what can be done by  both the government and  computer  owners
and  users  to  make  computer  crime less possible.
<The rest is available from the CuD ftp archives>

------------------------------
