Computer underground Digest    Tue Mar 17, 1992   Volume 4 : Issue 13

       Editors: Jim Thomas and Gordon Meyer (TK0JUT2@NIU.BITNET)
       Associate Editor: Etaion Shrdlu

CONTENTS, #4.13 (Mar 17, 1992)
File 1--Some questions for the more informed....
File 2--Letters from Prison-Len Rose's final installment
File 3--Standing Up to Stop the Bells
File 4--Whistleblowers computer bulletin board extremely successful

Issues of CuD can be found in the Usenet alt.society.cu-digest news
group, on CompuServe in DL0 and DL4 of the IBMBBS SIG, DL1 of LAWSIG,
and DL0 and DL12 of TELECOM, on Genie, on the PC-EXEC BBS at (414)
789-4210, and by anonymous ftp from ftp.eff.org (192.88.144.4),
chsun1.spc.uchicago.edu, and ftp.ee.mu.oz.au.  To use the U. of
Chicago email server, send mail with the subject "help" (without the
quotes) to archive-server@chsun1.spc.uchicago.edu.
European distributor: ComNet in Luxembourg BBS (++352) 466893.

COMPUTER UNDERGROUND DIGEST is an open forum dedicated to sharing
information among computerists and to the presentation and debate of
diverse views.  CuD material may  be reprinted as long as the source
is cited.  Some authors do copyright their material, and they should
be contacted for reprint permission.  It is assumed that non-personal
mail to the moderators may be reprinted unless otherwise specified.
Readers are encouraged to submit reasoned articles relating to
computer culture and communication.  Articles are preferred to short
responses.  Please avoid quoting previous posts unless absolutely
necessary.

DISCLAIMER: The views represented herein do not necessarily represent
            the views of the moderators. Digest contributors assume all
            responsibility for ensuring that articles submitted do not
            violate copyright protections.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Fri, 13 Mar 1992 17:31 EDT
From: "Led Go, You are hurding by node - The Elephants Child"@UNKNOWN.DOMAIN
Subject: File 1--Some questions for the more informed....

I've just finished reading Shockwave Rider, and am currently starting
to read Hackers. Does anyone have a single favorite reference, or
suggestion, I'm somewhat curious about the comment of borrowing from
the old hippies, in Shockwave Rider. There obviously may be some
socio-psychological type references that may be there somewhere. Does
anybody have any idea what Brunner was refering to there? It is an
obscure mention towards the very end of the book, where the discussion
of the far reaching web of the Precipice population, and its models
for survival. I myself, was growing up during the last years of the so
called hippie decade, so don't have much grasp on the time period.

Second:

After reading the rules of the Hacker Ethic, as outlined by Levy in
'Hackers', I have the following comment;

 I agree that information should be freely available, but feel
somewhat that if I dig up the information, that anyone who wants it
from me should be willing to freely pay what I freely ask for in
exchange. They also have the right to not buy the information from me,
but to look for another broker. I also have that same right when I'm
looking for information. I'm strongly into capitolism, and thus am not
at all sure I like the Hacker Ethic as described by Levy about the
info should be free rule.

Replies, comments, accusations, etc. may be sent to
Atkinson@gems.vcu.edu.

------------------------------

Date: Wed Mar  4 18:17:21 1992
From: lenrose@ouddahere.com
Subject: File 2--Letters from Prison-Len Rose's final installment

((Moderators' note: Len Rose was incarcerated for unauthorized
possession of UNIX sourcecode, and has nearly completed his term in
federal prison in North Carolina. For those interested in the
background to this case, in which Len was considered by many to be a
victim of over-zealous prosecution and sentencing, a complete history,
including usenet posts, news articles, search and seizure warrant,
indictment, and other information is available in the Len.Rose file in
the CuD ftp archives. Len will return to Chicago on March 23, and
would appreciate any employment leads. Those wishing to contact him
may do so through CuD until he has a permanent address)).

++++++++++++

Greetings from Prison!

It has been a long time coming, but it looks like I will be leaving
here March 23, 1992. I never thought I would make it. I owe my survival
to a few people out there on the Net, and I will never forget what
they have done for me and my family. I have been able to keep myself
informed, reading CuD and occasional articles from the Net that have been
sent to me.

I am looking forward to working again, and perhaps with a lot of hard
work and diligence, I can once again own a home and work for myself. I
have been assigned to a halfway house in Chicago, and hope to obtain
some employment in the city (at least for 2 months). If I do not or
cannot otain work, they may not let me leave the halfway house on
weekends (to be with my family). So, if I have to, I will work at
McDonalds or clean floors.

I have no equipment left, so one of my first priorities will be
obtaining some. Hopefully, I will be able to purchase a used Unix
system and a decent modem. I will then be able to write code and work
on projects for clients. I have a lot to do and very little time to
accomplish it.

I also have much to be thankful for, and have a very good attitude
now. When I was going through the worst of it,I felt like it was
the end of the world, but now I know that it's only a temporary
setback. I have so much to be grateful for, and, thanks to the people
who have stood by me, I will be able to end up just as if it never
happened.

Nowadays, I am bouncing off the walls in anticipation of seeing my
wife and kids again. I haven't been able to see them while
incarcerated, because they couldn't afford to visit North Carolina
from Chicago, and I was never able to obtain a transfer to a closer
prison.  However, I guess it will make the reunion that much sweeter.
Anyone who says that absence makes the heart row fonder is crazy.  It
is the worst torture that can be conceived.

My leg has mended well enough to permit me to work at just about
anything. I usually walk 3 to 4 miles a day here trying to strengthen
it. Although I have nothing else to do but read and perhaps tutor
people who cannot read, I have managed to pass the time. That has been
my worst enemy here lately--boredom. Loneliness for the people I love
has been a major enemy from the beginning.

I hope to obtain an account on a system that is on the Internet so I
can re-establish some contacts. Once I am able to buy some used Unix
equipment, I will re-establish netsys.com and become a network site
again. I have so many things to do.

Obviously my family will be my primary concern. They are currently
receiving some public assistance, and let me tell you, no one can
survive on welfare. If not for a few people who cared, they would be
living on the street. I am no longer bitter. I have learned that there
are some decent folk who care, and all of ou who've helped me are
really something special. I just wanted you to know that.  Most of you
read CuD, so if I never have the chance to speak to you, please
consider this a sincere thank you for what you've done.

Let's hear it for 1992. I have been dreaming of this moment for so
long, and I am anxious to begin my life again. Although I have two
months in a halfway house and then a three year probation to get
through, I know that I will be unstoppable.  If I am left alone, and
am able to show the powers-that-be that I only wish to live my life, I
now that I will again be a success.  Family and happiness are the only
things that matter. (And Unix too ((sigh)).

Well, if anyone has a job that I can do, I'd be very grateful.  I like
to work hard and will do it right. I have a lot of catching up to do,
but feel sure that I can do so in a prompt manner.

Oh well. I have rambled enough. I look forward to meeting you all
again on the Net. Who knows? Maybe I will become famous for something
other than this....I certainly hope so.

                             Len Rose

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 13 Mar 1992 13:31:44 -0500
From: Craig Neidorf <kl@stormking.com>
Subject: File 3--Standing Up to Stop the Bells

Did you hear about 1-800-54-Privacy?  Did you decide to call?  I did
and the following is the information I received a few weeks later.  It
outlines some of the serious ramifications of what is going to happen
if we do not actively support Congressional bills S 2112 and HR 3515.

The information comes from the American Newspaper Publisher's
Association (ANPA).  Keep in mind, they have a vested financial
interest in information services as do many others, and in many ways,
the newspaper industry can be and has been just as dishonest and
deceptive as the Regional Bell Operating Companies.  However, in this
particular situation, the ANPA has the right idea and does a pretty
good job in explaining why we need to act now and act fast.

You know who I am, and what I've been through.  My experiences have
given me a unique perspective and insight into the methods and goals
of the Regional Bell Operating Companies.  They are inherently
deceptive and if given even the slightest chance, they will screw the
consumer and engage in anti-competitive market practices.
Additionally, their tactics threaten our personal privacy as well.

The RBOCs must be stopped before its too late.

Craig Neidorf
kl@stormking.com

+ + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +

1-800-54-Privacy
444 N. Michigan Avenue
Suite 900
Chicago, Illinois  60611


February 14, 1992


Dear Consumer:

If you're like many people, you may have been hesitant about leaving
your name and address on our 1-800-54-PRIVACY phone line.

Why?

Quite simply, no one wants to give out information about themselves
without knowing exactly how that information is going to be used.

But the truth is, you reveal information about yourself EACH AND EVERY
TIME YOU PICK UP THE PHONE.  By tracking who you call, how often you
call and how long each conversation lasts, the seven regional Bell
telephone companies have the capability to learn and know more about
you than even the IRS.

In fact, with modern computer technology, there is practically no
limit to what the Bells can learn about your personal life every time
you pick up the phone.  And there is virtually no limit -- only one's
imagination -- to the ways they can take advantage of all the
information they glean.

Of course its one thing to have the capability to do this snooping.
It's another thing to have the incentive to actually do it.

Until October 7, 1991, the incentive just didn't exist for the Bells.
Prior to this date, the vast electronic networks of the Bell
monopolies were just neutral carriers of phone messages, data, and
other companies' fax, audiotex, and videotex services.

For example, when you last called a 1-900 or 1-800 line to get the
latest stock quotes, sports scores, or headlines, your local phone
company served simply as the pipeline for moving the billions of
electrons in your call.  The company that provided you with the
information over the phone line was not -- and by law, could not be --
the phone company.

And that's the way things had been since 1984, when U.S. District
Court Judge Harold Greene issued his now-famous decree breaking up the
AT&T monopoly and spinning off control of local phone service to seven
regional Bell companies.

In the decree, the Court expressly prohibited the individual Bells
from entering three businesses -- cable TV, telephone manufacturing,
and electronic information services.

Why?

After presiding over the lengthy AT&T anti-trust case and being
exposed to hundreds upon hundreds of monopolistic abuses by AT&T,
Judge Greene's Court was firmly convinced that, if allowed to enter
any of these three current areas, the Bells would undoubtedly engage
in the same monopolistic behavior that characterized their former
parent.

In other words, while cutting off the hydra-like AT&T head, Judge
Greene was fearful that, given too much leeway, AT&T's seven so-called
"Baby Bell" off-spring might become equal or worse monsters
themselves.

>From day one, however, the Bells undertook a long-term, multi-million
dollar lobbying campaign to fight Judge Greene's ruling and try to
convince the Justice Department, the higher courts, and even the U.S.
Congress that they should be permitted to enter the content end of the
information service business.

And, so, on October 7, 1991, after years of heavy lobbying, a higher
court came through for the Bells and practically ordered Judge Greene
to overturn his 1984 decree and open up the information services
industry to the Bells.

In the 71-page ruling, a very reluctant Judge Greene devoted
two-thirds of his decision to explaining why allowing the Bells to
sell information services was bad for consumers and bad for America.

For example, he went to great length to discount the Bells' claim
that, once given the green light, they would be better able to serve
the public than the thousands of already existing electronic
information services.  To quote from his decision.

     "In the first place, the contention that it will take the
     Regional Companies (the Bells) to provide better information
     services to the American public can only be described as
     preposterous."

Judge Green also wrote:

     "Moreover, the Court considers the claim that the Regional
     Companies' entry into information services would usher in an era
     of sophisticated information services available to all as so much
     hype."

His decision also contains a warning regarding the prices consumers will be
forced to pay for Bell-provided services:

     "The Regional Companies would be able to raise price by increasing
     their competitors' costs, and they could raise such costs by virtue
     of the dependence of their rivals' information services on local
     network access."

Finally, here's what Judge Greene had to say about his court's
decision and the public good:

     "Were the Court free to exercise its own judgment, it would
      conclude without hesitation that removal of the information
      services restriction is incompatible with the decree and the
      public interest."

If Judge Greene's warnings as well as his profound reluctance to issue
this ruling scare you, they should.

That's because the newly freed Bells now have the incentive, which
they never had before, to engage in the anti-competitive,
anti-consumer practices that Judge Greene feared.

Besides using your calling records to sell you information services
they think you're predisposed to buy, the Bell's may well try to
auction off your phone records to the highest bidder.

As a result, anyone who ever uses a phone could well be a potential
victim of the Bell's abuse.

Consider the simple act of making a telephone call to an auto repair
shop to schedule body work or a tune-up.  By knowing that you made
that call, your phone company might conclude that you're in the market
for a new car and sell your name to local car dealers.

Another example.  Think about calling a real estate broker for
information on mortgage rates.  Knowing you must be in the market for
a house, the Bells could sell your name to other brokers.  Or they
could try to sell you their own electronic mortgage rate service.

Now let's say you and your spouse are having some problems and one of
you calls a marriage counselor.  Tipped off by information purchased
from the phone company, a divorce lawyer shows up on your doorstep the
next morning.

Finally, think about calling your favorite weather  service hotline --
a competitor to the weather service operated by your local phone
company.  By keeping track of people who use its competitor's service,
the phone company might just try to get you to buy its weather service
instead.

Far-fetched?  Not at all.

Nefarious?  You bet.

That doesn't mean that, starting tomorrow, your phone company is going
to start tracking who you call, how long your calls last, and who
calls you.  However, they could do it if that wanted to.  And, based
on past experience, some of them probably will do so at one point or
another.

That's because the protest of gaining an unfair edge over the
competition --companies that have no choice but to depend upon the
Bells wires -- is just too tantalizing a temptation for the Bells to
ignore.

As you might expect, the Bells claim that these fears are totally
unfounded and that strict regulations are in place to prevent them
from abusing your telephone privacy.

However, there simply aren't enough regulators in the world to control
the monopolistic tendencies and practices of the Bells.  Every single
one of the seven Bells has already abused its position as a regulated
monopoly.  There is no reason to believe they won't in the future.

For example, the Georgia Public Service Commission recently found that
BellSouth had abused its monopoly position in promoting its MemoryCall
voice mail system.  Apparently, operators would try to sell MemoryCall
when customers called to arrange for hook-up to competitors'
voice-mail services.  Likewise, while on service calls, BellSouth
repair personnel would try to sell MemoryCall to people using
competitors' systems.  BellSouth even used competitors' orders for
network features as sales leads to steal customers.

In February 1991, US West admitted it had violated the law by
providing prohibited information services, by designing and selling
telecommunications equipment and by discriminating against a
competitor.  The Justice Department imposed a $10 million fine -- 10
times larger than the largest fine imposed in any previous anti-trust
division contempt case.

In February 1990, the Federal Communications Commission found that one
of Nynex's subsidiaries systematically overcharged another Nynex
company $118 million for goods and services and passed that extra cost
on to ratepayers.

The abuses go on and on.

In this brave new world, however, it's just not consumers who will
suffer.  Besides invading your privacy, the Bells could abuse their
position as monopolies to destroy the wide range of useful information
services already available

Right now, there are some 12,000 information services providing
valuable news, information, and entertainment to millions of
consumers.  Every one of these services depends on lines owned and
controlled by Bell monopolies.

This makes fair competition with the Bells impossible.

It would be like saying that Domino's Pizzas could only be delivered
by Pizza Hut.

It would be like asking a rival to deliver a love note to your
sweetheart.

It would be a disaster.

If the Bells aren't stopped, they will make it difficult -- if not
impossible -- for competitors to use Bell wires to enter your home.

They could deny competitors the latest technological advances and
delay the introduction of new features.  They could even undercut
competitor's prices by inflating local phone bills to finance the cost
of their own new information services.

In the end, the Bells could drive other information services out of
business, thereby dictating every bit of information you receive and
depriving the American public out of the diversity of information
sources it deserves and that our form of government demands.

Can something be done to stop the Bells?

Yes, absolutely.

You can take several immediate steps to register your views on this
issue.  Those steps are described in the attached "Action Guidelines"
sheet.  Please act right away.

In the meantime on behalf of our growing coalition of consumer groups,
information services providers, and newspapers, thank you for your
interest in
this important issue.

Sincerely,

Cathleen Black
President and Chief Executive Officer
American Newspaper Publishers Association

+ + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +  + + + + + + + + + + + + + +

                               ACTION GUIDELINES

Something is very wrong when a monopoly is put into the position where
it can abuse your privacy, drive competitors from the market, and even
force you, the captive telephone ratepayer, to subsidize the costs of
new information services ventures.

Can something be done to stop this potential abuse?

Absolutely.

WHAT YOU CAN DO.  The first step is to call or write your local
telephone company to assert your right to privacy.

The second step is to write your U.S. Representative and U.S. Senators
 and urge them to support House bill 3515 and Senate bill 2112.

Since the purpose of both HR 3515 and S 2112 is to prevent the Bells
from abusing their monopoly position, not to prevent legitimate
competition, the Bells would be free to sell information services in
any area of the country where they do not have a monopoly -- in other
words, 6/7 of the country.

However, the bills would delay entry of the Bell companies into the
information services industry in their own regions until they no
longer held a monopoly over local phone service.  As soon as consumers
were offered a real choice in local phone service -- whether it be
cellular phones, satellite communications, or other new technology --
the Bells would be free to offer any information services they wanted.

Both bills are fair to everyone.  They protect consumer privacy and
ensure that the thriving information services industry will remain
competitive.

Quick action is need to pass these bills.  A hand-written letter
stating your views is the most effective way of reaching elected
officials.  It is proof positive that you are deeply concerned about
the issue.


POINTS TO MAKE IN YOUR LETTER

You may wish to use some or all of the following points:

     A phone call should be a personal and private thing -- not a
     sales marketing tool for the phone company.

     The Bells should not be allowed to take unfair advantage of
     information they can obtain about you by virtue of owning and
     controlling the wires that come into homes.

     The Bells must not be allowed to abuse their position as
     monopolies to drive existing information services out of
     business.

     The Bells should not be permitted to engage in activities that
     would deprive Americans of the information diversity they deserve
     and that our form of government demands.

     The Bells should not be permitted to finance information services
     ventures by inflating the phone bills of captive telephone
     ratepayers.


AFTER YOU'VE WRITTEN YOUR LETTER

After you've written your letter or made your phone call, please send
us a letter and tell us.  By sending us your name and address, you'll
receive occasional updates on the massive effort underway to prevent
the Bells from invading your privacy and turning into the monopolistic
monsters that Judge Greene warned about.

There's one more thing you can do.  Please ask your friends,
relatives, neighbors, and co-workers to urge their U.S.
Representatives and Senators to support HR 3515 and S 2112.  We need
everyone's help if we're going to stop the Bells.

1-800-54-PRIVACY
444 N. Michigan Avenue
Suite #900
Chicago, Illinois  60611

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 6 Mar 92 15:29 GMT
From: Jean-Bernard Condat <0005013469@MCIMAIL.COM>
Subject: File 4--Whistleblowers computer bulletin board extremely successful


Whistleblowers computer bulletin board extremely successful

Whistle-blowers may now anonymously report government fraud, waste,
and abuse via computer to the House Government Operations subcommittee
on Government Information, Justice, and Agriculture. The number for
the computer system, which will accept files and messages, is (202)
225-5527.  Aliases are permitted.

  The Truelson' PhD published in 1986, draws upon the theoretical
framework of systemic corruption--an organized conspiracy to suppress
revelation of corrupt practices--to propose a retaliation model to
account for organizational retaliation against whistleblowers with
legitimate protests. This study is one basis of this uncredible
bulletin board.

  House Government Information Subcommittee's whistleblower computer
BBS has been "tremendously successful" and has generated about "50
substantive leads" in its two months of operation, Subcommittee Chief
Counsel Robert Gellman said. Board has received 700-800 calls, many
from curious browsers who want to see what's available and others who
want to discuss policy
matters.

  But Gellman said board was designed solely to allow whistle-blowers to
post private notes to alert Subcommittee to instances of waste, fraud and
abuse, so there isn't much for anyone else to see. There are no files
available to download or bulletin to read, as there are on most bulletin
boards. Gellman said message senders often don't use their real names,
and Subcommittee staff has used electronic mail feature to send message
back asking for more information.


                                REFERENCES

1. Food Chemical News, December 16, 1991, ISSN 0015-6337;

2. Judith Anne Truelson, "Blowing the Whistle on systemic Corruption,"
   University of Southern California (Los Angeles, CA), 1986;

3. Communications Daily, February 13, 1992, ISSN 0277-0679.

                         ++++ (A SAMPLE) ++++

                             ON-LINE SEARCHING

Welcome to

THE FEDERAL WHISTLEBLOWER BBS

This bulletin board exists to help the United States Congress identify
waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government.  You are invited to
leave messages or upload files that relate to this purpose.  There are no
public files or public messages on this board.

Your SYSOP is Congressman Bob Wise from West Virginia.

The CONTENTS of all communications are confidential and not accessible to
other users.  However, the name you use to sign on may be visible to
other users.  If this is a concern, please use a pseudonym to protect
your identity.


What is your FIRST name (pseudonyms okay)? JONES JOHN

Checking Users...
User not found
Are you 'JONES JOHN' ([Y],N)? Y
What is your STATE  (any entry acceptable)? LYON IN FRANCE
Welcome to the FEDERAL WHISTLEBLOWER BULLETIN BOARD.

This Board is operated by an investigative subcommittee in the U.S. House
of Representatives.

Your SYSOP is Congressman Bob Wise from West Virginia.

GROUND RULES:

     1. There are NO public files and NO public messages on this board.
If you are looking for downloads, games, etc., you won't find them here.

     2. If you have a concern about protecting your identity, please use
a pseudonym.  Because of software limitations, the name you use to sign
on with may become known to others.  You may leave your real name in the
contents of a message, but this is not required.  THE CONTENTS OF
MESSAGES CAN ONLY BE READ BY THE SYSOP.  Messages cannot be read by any
other user.  Use the Comment command to leave messages to the Sysop.

JONES JOHN from LYON IN FRANCE
C)hange FIRST name (pseudonyms okay)/LAST name (pseudonyms okay)/STATE  (any
ent
ry acceptable), D)isconnect, [R]egister? R
Enter PASSWORD you'll use to logon again (dots echo)? ....
Re-Enter password for Verification (dots echo)? ....
Please REMEMBER your password
Welcome to RBBS-PC, Condat.  You have 60 mins for this session.
Logging JONES JOHN
RBBS-PC 17.3C Node 1, operating at 1200 BAUD,N,8,1

      +--------------------------------------------------+
      |     Welcome to the FEDERAL WHISTLEBLOWER BBS     |
      +--------------------------------------------------+
               Your SYSOP is Congressman Bob Wise
                   BBS Phone:  (202) 225-5527

   REMINDERS:

   1) Remember your password.  If you forget it, you can't read
      your mail and we can't contact you.

   2) Use mixed case in messages.  ALL UPPER CASE IS HARD TO READ.

   3) If you upload a file, please leave a message so we know who
      provided it.  If you don't, the upload will not be acknowledged.
      This is NOT a requirement.  Anonymous uploads are acceptable.

   4) Callers may be deleted after 30 days.  If this happens to you,
      just register again.  It only takes a second.

Checking messages in MAIN..
Sorry, JONES, No NEW mail for you

RBBS-PC 17.3C Node 1

Caller #  1279  # active msgs: 74  Next msg # 539

             ------*>>>   RBBS-PC  MAIN MENU   <<<*------
----- MAIL ---------- SYSTEM ---------- UTILITIES ------ ELSEWHERE ---

 [R]ead Mail to Me   [B]ulletins        [H]elp (or ?)       [F]iles
 [C]omment to SYSOP  [I]nitial Welcome  [X]pert on/off      [G]oodbye
                                                            [Q]uit
                                                            [U]tilities

     *----------------------------------------------------------------
   Current time: 09:38 AM  Minutes remaining: 58     Security: 5
     *----------------------------------------------------------------
MAIN: 58 min left
MAIN command <?,B,C,F,G,H,I,K,Q,R,U,X>? B

* Ctrl-K(^K) / ^X aborts. ^S suspends ^Q resumes *
 ======[ WHISTLEBLOWER BBS Bulletin Menu ]=======

 Bulletin  Description
  *-----   -------------------------------------
   1       Description and Purpose of this Board
   2       Upload and Download Policies (NO DOWNLOADS!)
   3       Operating Policies
   4       How to Blow the Whistle

Read what bulletin(s), L)ist, S)ince, N)ews ([ENTER] = none)? 3

* Ctrl-K(^K) / ^X aborts. ^S suspends ^Q resumes *
                THE WHISTLEBLOWER BBS:  OPERATING POLICIES

     1. The highest priority on this bulletin board is protecting the
confidentiality of callers.  A caller concerned about confidentiality
should use a pseudonym.

     2. There is no Caller-ID service on the bulletin board's incoming
line.  Incoming calls are not traced.  Each caller must consider the
possibility that a call to this board is being recorded or traced at the
source of the call.

     3. The Whistleblower BBS is operated by an investigative subcommittee
in the United States House of Representatives.  The purpose of the board is
to assist the Congress in identifying waste, fraud, and abuse in federal
agencies, programs, contracts, and grants.  No action will be taken on any
information that does not further this purpose.

     4. A higher priority will be assigned to matters that involve large
amounts of federal funds or that affect health or safety.  Other matters
may be pursued to the extent permitted by available resources.

     5. We cannot provide any type of general assistance to callers.  The
board should not be used for any political purpose or to lobby Congress on
legislative or policy matters.

     6. Messages that relate to the purpose of the board will be
acknowledged.  A caller who provides an investigative lead is encouraged to
call back in the event more information is required.  Messages that do not
relate to the purpose of the board may not be acknowledged.  Most messages
will be erased after they are read.

     7. General information about investigations that result from
activities on the Whistleblower BBS may be made public, although no
information specifically identifying an individual caller will be released.
Publicity for the board will help to accomplish its purpose.  However, a
caller will not necessarily be informed about the details of any
investigation that results from his or her message.

     8. Information obtained on the Whistleblower BBS may be shared with
other congressional investigators, agency Inspectors General, and the
General Accounting Office (the audit arm of Congress).  INFORMATION THAT
SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIES CALLERS WILL NOT BE SHARED.  Callers should
identify any special confidentiality concerns or expressly state if they
need to place any specific restrictions on the use of the information that
they provide.  Information will not be shared if a caller specifically
requests.

     9. Casual visitors to the board may be deleted from the user base at
any time.  If you call a second time and find that you are not recognized,
just re-register.  It only takes a few seconds.  Users not engaged in
current discussions may also be deleted as a security precaution.

     10. Text files may be uploaded, preferably in ASCII format.  Word
Perfect format is a second choice.  Files may be compressed using standard
compression programs.  Files other than text files will be immediately
deleted.

     11. If you attempt to use a common pseudonym (e.g., John Doe), you may
find that it is already in use.  When you first enter a name not in use,
you will receive a message about the board.  If you enter a name that is
known to the board, you will be asked for a password.  If this happens, you
must hang up, call again, and use a different name.  Anyone reading this
has already solved the problem.  This paragraph is included as an
explanation.
* Ctrl-K(^K) / ^X aborts. ^S suspends ^Q resumes *
 ======[ WHISTLEBLOWER BBS Bulletin Menu ]=======

 Bulletin  Description
  *-----   -------------------------------------
   1       Description and Purpose of this Board
   2       Upload and Download Policies (NO DOWNLOADS!)
   3       Operating Policies
   4       How to Blow the Whistle

Read what bulletin(s), L)ist, S)ince, N)ews ([ENTER] = none)? 4

* Ctrl-K(^K) / ^X aborts. ^S suspends ^Q resumes *
                           THE WHISTLEBLOWER BBS

            How to Blow the Whistle on Fraud, Waste, and Abuse

     1. You do NOT have to give your name or identify yourself in any way.
But you should call again after you have left a message.  Use the same name
you used the first time and see if there is an answer for you.  Use the
READ MAIL TO ME command.  This permits continuing communications so that we
can ask you for more information or clarification.  Allow a few days for
your message to be read.

     2. Remember that we are more interested in conduct involving
SIGNIFICANT amounts of federal funds or MAJOR instances of wrongdoing.  We
have limited resources, and we are less likely to investigate minor
matters.  When in doubt, we encourage you to report the matter and let us
decide.

     3. Provide enough information so we can find and investigate the
objectionable activity.  Whenever possible, tell us WHO, WHAT, WHERE, WHEN,
WHY, and HOW.  Be as specific as possible.

     4. WHO:  Identify the agency, office, program, contract, or grant:

          Vague:         ABC Department
          Okay:          ABC Department, Z Bureau
          Good:          ABC Department, Z Bureau, Denver Office
          Better:        ABC Department, Z Bureau, Denver Office, Contract
                         Number 123-456 dated 2/1/89

     5. WHAT:  Describe the conduct:

          Vague:         Wasted Money
          Okay:          Bought unnecessary computers
          Good:          Bought 200 Personal Computers to use funds at the
                         end of the fiscal year
          Better:        John Smith authorized the purchase of 200 unneeded
                         PCs under contract 123-456 on 9/30/91 to avoid
                         returning excess funds to the Treasury

     6. WHERE:  State where the activity occurred:

          Vague:         Unnecessary travel
          Okay:          Trips to Los Angeles
          Good:          Trips from Headquarters to Los Angeles
          Better:        John Smith authorized travel for himself from
                         Chicago to Los Angeles every Friday before the
                         UCLA football team played a game at home so he
                         could watch the game

     7. WHEN:  Provide all relevant dates:

          Vague:         Last year
          Okay:          1990
          Good:          Starting in May 1990
          Better:        Began on May 5, 1990, continued every other week
                         until December 14, 1991

     8. WHY and HOW:  Explain the conduct involved:

          Vague:         Broke the law
          Okay:          Did not follow procurement rules
          Good:          Failed to obtain sole-source contracting authority
          Better:        Procured 1000 buses from ABC Corp. under contract
                         number 123-456, on 5/1/90, under a sole source
                         contract that was not approved by the contracting
                         officer.

* Ctrl-K(^K) / ^X aborts. ^S suspends ^Q resumes *
 ======[ WHISTLEBLOWER BBS Bulletin Menu ]=======

 Bulletin  Description
  *-----   -------------------------------------
   1       Description and Purpose of this Board
   2       Upload and Download Policies (NO DOWNLOADS!)
   3       Operating Policies
   4       How to Blow the Whistle

Read what bulletin(s), L)ist, S)ince, N)ews ([ENTER] = none)?

             ------*>>>   RBBS-PC  MAIN MENU   <<<*------
  *-- MAIL ---------- SYSTEM ---------- UTILITIES ------ ELSEWHERE ---

 [R]ead Mail to Me   [B]ulletins        [H]elp (or ?)       [F]iles
 [C]omment to SYSOP  [I]nitial Welcome  [X]pert on/off      [G]oodbye
                                                            [Q]uit
                                                            [U]tilities

   *------------------------------------------------------------------
   Current time: 09:41 AM  Minutes remaining: 55     Security: 5
   *------------------------------------------------------------------
MAIN: 55 min left
MAIN command <?,B,C,F,G,H,I,K,Q,R,U,X>? C

Type comment 60 lines max (Press [ENTER] to quit)

    [----------------------------------------------------------------------]
 1: Hallo!
 2: I am a French journalist and will be very please to receive a press
 3: information on this curious BBS.
 4: My e-mail address is MCI Mail #501-3469 or DialMail #24064
 5: Don't hesitate to contact me.
 6: Jean-Bernard Condat
 7: CCCF, B.P. 8005, 69351 Lyon Cedex 08, France (Fax.: +33 1 47877070)
 8:

A)bort, C)ontinue adding, D)elete lines, E)dit a line
I)nsert lines, L)ist, M)argin change, R)evise subj, S)ave msg, ?)help
Edit Sub-function <A,C,D,E,I,L,M,R,S,?>? s
Adding new msg # 539.
Receiver will be notified of new mail

             ------*>>>   RBBS-PC  MAIN MENU   <<<*------
  *-- MAIL ---------- SYSTEM ---------- UTILITIES ------ ELSEWHERE ---

 [R]ead Mail to Me   [B]ulletins        [H]elp (or ?)       [F]iles
 [C]omment to SYSOP  [I]nitial Welcome  [X]pert on/off      [G]oodbye
                                                            [Q]uit
                                                            [U]tilities

     *----------------------------------------------------------------
   Current time: 09:43 AM  Minutes remaining: 53     Security: 5
    *-----------------------------------------------------------------
MAIN: 53 min left
MAIN command <?,B,C,F,G,H,I,K,Q,R,U,X>? g
Log off (Y,[N])? y

Now: 03-06-1992 at 09:43:54
On for 7 mins, 5 secs
 60 min left for next call today
JONES, Thanks and please call again!

------------------------------

End of Computer Underground Digest #4.13
************************************
