
               Things That Go 'BOOM' and Other Stuff That Rulez
                      Issue Nine: The Anarchist's Toolbox
                              
                                  Written by
                                  ----------
                                   Cerberus
                                     Case 
                                  ----------
                              Shroud of Deception
                              Gut Shoveler (Gutz)
                                 616.775.2945
                                  ----------
                                    5-23-94

WARNING: Don't try this at home.  If you're stupid enough to try any of this
shit, we're not responsible.  We aren't gonna pay your hospital bills because
you blew off your thumb.  We'll just laugh at you.  WE AREN'T RESPONSIBLE FOR
ANY DAMAGES CAUSED BY USE OF ANY OF THE MATERIAL PRESENTED IN THIS FILE.
THIS IS PRESENTED FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY!

Yes!  We have finally persuaded Gut, the sysop of Boom's WHQ (see above), to
make a guest account for people who wish to complete their collection of
Booms and don't want to go through the validation shit.  Call the Shroud of
Deception (616.775.2945) and enter the following info:
   Name: GUEST
   Password: GUEST
Then, you will be logged on to the guest menu.  All you can do from there is
download.  The files available are all the issues of Boom, GutMOD, ModSHELL,
various MODs written by people we think are cool, and anything else we want
to get distributed.  I would recommend you download GutMOD, ModSHELL, and
some MODs if you have a SoundBlaster and have never heard MODs.

This issue marks a change in the content of Boom.  In this issue, we have
included a news article about school arson.  We hope to continue with more
news articles.  Don't worry, we're still your best source for anarchy.

The Anarchist's Toolbox:
  All you will need for the Anarchist's Toolbox is one cheap ass K-Mart
  tackle box.  But, if intend to carry alot of the materials we suggest,
  you should buy (or stick it under your coat as Watson tried to do) a
  huge ass top-of-the-line mutha fuck'n tackle box.
 Suggested Materials:
  Battery - 9 volt recommended.  Big dry cell if you have room.  This is
            useful for detonating some explosives.  Warning: do not store
            your battery near your electrically detonated explosives.
  Beverage - Just in case you get thirsty.
  Binoculars - Very useful in espionage, safety, blackmail.
  C-Clamp - A must for clamping your projects to the work bench.
  Camping Stove - An essential if you want to make stuff when you're away
                  from your garage (or wherever you usually make shit).
                  A can of Sterno might serve as a suitable replacement for
                  this item.
  Duct tape - If we need to explain this you should give up the anarchy biz.
  Fuses - We recommend both the traditional fuses which burn and rocket
          ignitors.
  Explosives - There are several different explosives you should carry:
                 TNT - have fun!
                 Gun Powder - essential, see issue 7
                 Gel Dynamite (or AFPO) - see issue 10
                 Home Made Plastique - see issue 10
                 Smoke Powder - see issue 3
                 Solid Rocket Fuel - see issue 8
  Lighter - We usually carry both a Zippo and a generic Bic.
  Liquid Chemicals - When carrying liquid chemicals, be very careful they
                     don't spill.  Here's our list:
                       Nitric Acid
                       Sulfuric Acid
                       Ethanol
                       Toluene
                       Perchloric Acid
                       Hydrochloric Acid
  Lock Picks - Just in case you feel like breaking and entering.  Look for
               Boom issue 11 or 12 which will explain lock picking and the
               creation of picks.
  Marbels - Just in case you get caught and decide to run, grab a couple of
            these babies and throw then on the ground.  If you're lucky,
            you'll be home reflecting on your accomplishments while they are
            at the hospital picking stones out of thier head.
  Matches - We carry both wooden and paper matches.  Paper are useful for
            making pocket rockets when you are bored (see issue 8).
  Pen and Paper - If you want to record your field test data.
  Piping - We recommend thin copper water heater piping.  This comes in handy
           if you want to blow a lock out.  Cut a piece, crimp one end shut,
           fill the other end with gun powder, put in a wick, and light.
  Projectile - Sharp, possibly a throwing knife.  Useful if you want to make
               a WD bomb or if you want to kick someone's ass.
  Pry Bar - Another good lock picking device.  Also good for prying open lids
            and other things that are normally hard to open.
  Rubber Cement - Rubber cement is one of the most useful items an anarchist
                  can carry.  In addition to being sticky, it is also highly
                  flammable.
  Screw Drivers - Carry both Philips and regular.
  Solid Chemicals - Solid chemicals are very useful for making on the spot
                    explosives.  They are also much easier to trasport than
                    liquid chemicals are.  Here's our list of recommendations:
                      Potassium Perchlorate
                      Potassium Chlorate
                      Potassium Nitrate
                      Potassium Hydroxide
                      Potassium Permanganate
                      Sulfur
                      Mercury
                      Phosphorus
                      Sodium Azide
                      Lead Acetate
                      Barium Nitrate
                      Picric Acid (powder form)
                      Ammonium Nitrate
                      Powdered Magnesium
                      Powdered Aluminum
  Swiss Army Knife - Very, very, very useful.
  Wire - Without the wire, you would have to stick the 9-volt into the
         explosive.  We recommend copper wire.  Carry alot.
  WD-40 - WD-40 is not only a lubricant, but also highly flammable.  If you
          stick a lighter in front of the nozzle and light it, then press
          down on the nozzle, you will create a small flame thrower.

House-hold Equivilents:
  Experienced anarchist's have a habit of making things unnecessarily
  complicated by using chemical names instead of telling you what you have
  that you can use.  For example, they'll tell you to use Ammonium Hydroxide.
  What the hell is Ammonium Hydroxide?  Well, it's common ammonia.  We would
  recommend you print this list out and pin in to your wall or something.
  It comes in real handy.

    Chemical Name                   House-hold Equivalant
    -------------                   ---------------------
    acetic acid                     vinegar
    aluminum oxide                  alumia
    aluminum potassium sulfate      alum
    aluminum sulfate                alum
    ammonium hydroxide              ammonia
    carbon carbonate                chalk
    carbon tetrachloride            cleaning fluid
    calcium hypochloride            bleaching powder
    calcium oxide                   lime
    calcium sulfate                 plaster of paris
    carbonic acid                   seltzer
    ethylene dichloride             dutch fluid
    ferric oxide                    iron rust
    glucose                         corn syrup
    graphite                        pencil lead
    hydrochloric acid               muriatic acid
    hydrogen peroxide               peroxide
    lead acetate                    sugar of lead
    lead tetrooxide                 red lead
    magesium silicate               talc
    magesium sulfate                Epsom salts
    naphthalene                     mothballs
    phenol                          carbolic acid
    potassium bicarbonate           cream of tarter
    potassium chromium sulfate      chrome alum
    potassium nitrate               saltpeter
    sodium dioxide                  sand
    sodium bicarbonate              baking soda
    sodium borate                   borax
    sodium carbonate                washing soda
    sodium choride                  salt
    sodium hydroxide                lye
    sodium silicate                 water glass
    sodium sulfate                  glaubers' salt
    sodium thiosulfate              photographers hypo
    sulferic acid                   battery acid
    sucrose                         cane sugar
    zinc choride                    tinner's fluid

Troubled Kids Setting More Fires in Michigan's Schools:
  This is a cool news article about Michigan's school arson problem.
 From:
  The Detroit News
  Friday, May 20, 1994

     A sharp increase in arson is plauging Michigan schools, with most fires 
being set by lonely students without friends or pranksters hoping to get out
of class, according to investigators.
     State K-12 schools reported 215 arson and suspicious fires in 1993, a
27-percent increase.  Nearly half the fires, 104 in all, occurred at schools
in Wayne, Oakland, and Macomb counties.
     Although no one has been injured, the incidents caused an estimated
$11.6 million in property damage.
     The 1993 figures, the most recent available from the state fire marshal,
shows a disturbing trend, authorities said.
     "Fire setting often signals a cry for help," said John Hall, assistant 
vice-president for fire analysis and research at the National Fire Protection
Association.
     "It could be trouble in school, trouble at home," Hall said.  "It could
be abuse.  It could be a learning disability and the frustration from that."
     School officials are taking a range of steps to deal with the problem,
from criminal prosecution to the careful removal of trash cans and certain
types of bathroom towel dispensers.
     They also worry about finding the students who set fires and getting
them counseling before they graduate to larger crimes beyond the school yard.
     "Our concern is to identify the student and solve the problem," Dickson
said.  "We want to prevent the person from going on to more dangerous
activities, setting bigger fires.
     Fires "are typically set by younger students, kids in the ninth and 10th
grade," said Norman Dickson, assistant principal at Harrison High School in
Farmington Hills.  "They typically would not have a lot of friends.  That
doesn't mean they're loners."
     "Probably they don't have a lot of friends because their communication
skills and interrelation skills with other kids are not very good."
     Farmington Hills fire fighters were called to seven arson fires at
Harrison High between October and April.
     "You've got 1,000 kids in the school," said Farmington Hills Fire Chief
Richard Marinucci.  "You worry about their safety."
     Added dangers are present in buildings with central air conditioning
units where it can be difficult to locate the source of the smoke, Marinucci
said.  Many fire victims die from smoke inhalation, rather than from the
actual flames.
     Nationally, an average of 4,100 school fires a year were reported
between 1987 and 1991, according to the NFPA.  The fires caused and average
$64.4 million in property damage each year.
     Group fire setting often occurs among preteens in the 10-12 year age
range, experts say.
     Sometimes a group of juveniles set nuisance fires as a prank or an
opportunity to skip classes.
     "They set the fire so they can bust out of school for the day," said 
Capt. John Tucker, a Detroit arson investigator.  "They evacuate the school 
and some of them don't come back."
     But the fires don't always happen during school hours.
     At Mackenzie High School on Detroit's west side, a fire last March set
after school while many students still occupied the building, caused an
estimated $100,000 in smoke and fire damage.
     Most fires are set in school trash cans or bathrooms.
     But last fall, at Detroit's Osborn High School arson investigators say
someone used a Molotov cocktail to destroy the main office and cause $50,000
in damage.
     A troubled student often will set more than one fire.  At Mt.  Clemens
High School last year, a disgruntled student set several locker room and
bathroom fires, fire officials said.
     Many of the fires at Farmington Hills' Harrison High also have been set
by the same student, or students.  The fires, which usually involved trash
cans set under stairwells, were quickly extinguished.
     This year, fire setting has been more persistent than in previous years
at the school, officials said.
     "The first one in the girls' bathroom would have been the most serious
because it was a roll of paper towels,"  said assistant principle Dickson.
     "They rolled it out and set it on fire.  The plastic dispenser melted
and allowed the paper roll to keep burning, so it increased the chance of
something else to catch fire.  So we replaced all the plastic containers 
with the metal ones to contain fires."
     School officials also removed garbage cans from the stairwells, forcing 
students to use more visible receptacles in hallways and classrooms.
     The school is considering whether it should take legal action against
offenders, Dickson said.  At least two students have received counseling for
setting fires.
     Fire chief Marinucci said schools should take a hard line with youthful
offenders.
     "From our perspective, we'd like to see (the culprits) prosecuted and
held responsible for it,"  he said.  "It's a criminal action and they're
endangering lives."

What to do when you find a dead animal:
  This is presented as a public service message, by Watson.
  If you are ever outside and find a dead animal, you may
  want to consider following Watson's Do's and Don'ts of dead
  Wildlife.
 Do's:
  1. Kick it in the head to insure that it is truly dead.
  2. If you find that it is not quiet dead, find a big rock,
     hold it above your head and let it drop apon the animal's
     skull squishing it's pudding like bain into a puddle of 
     surypy crap.
  3. Set the animal on fire, it's only right that it be cremated
     or buried, and since diggin' a hole seems to take for ever....
  4. If the animal is big enough, such as a deer, paint it's 
     eyes white and put a black dot in the middle, next dress him
     up in your finest duds and put him in the line at a local
     lawyers office.
     <Editor's Note: huh?>
  5. Charge admition for little kids to poke it with an ugly stick.
 
 Don'ts:
  1. Don't make love to it, Dead animals often carry disease.
     <Editor's Note: Watson, is that the only reason you know of not
     to have sex with it?!?>
  2. Don't eat it, it might have died becuase it ate some feel good
     root, unless you want to end up the same... remember what you
     are is what they ate... wait no .... in one end out the other...
     no umm well, you know don't eat it.
  3. Don't stick it in you locker, becuase that annoying chick that
     has a locker next to you will see it and tell a teacher.
  4. Don't stick things in it's butt because a bad smeel will occure.
  5. Don't cut off it's nuts and turn it into a neckless for your
     girl friend, she won't like it much (if she does you may want to 
     consider getting a new girl friend, unless you are a girl then that
     would make you an lesbian, unless it was your boy friend or... ahhh
     whatever.)

