

                        The International Rogues Guild

                               IRG Newsletter #2
                             
                        Written by: Haywire
                        Edited by: Haywire
                        

1. Table Of Contents
        1......................................Table Of Contents              
        2......................................Disclaimer
        3......................................More About IRG        
        4......................................CyberPunk Follys
        5......................................BBSs From Hell
        6......................................Letters From Prison
        7......................................Hellos And Goodbyes
        
        
2. Disclaimer
        All items in this newsletter are meant for informational purposes 
only. It wasn't written to encourage illegal activities, just to better
inform the computer-oriented community.

3. More About IRG
        The International Rogues Guild is a P/H/A/C group that was started
sometime last year.  IRG ended once my board Insanity Lane crashed.  There were
only about five members and we had only come out with a few things.  Well IRG
is back and it plans to become quite large.  IRG's newsletters will be run how
Phrack ran there newsletters, if there is something good that you have and
would like to add to the Elite comunity, from bust news to how to make car
bombs, then E-mail it to me(Haywire AKA Insanity) on Insanity Lane.  IRG is
open to new members and anyone who would like to join please contact me...
        The Newsletter will have certain sections that will be in every
newsletter.  They will be:
        1. Table Of Contents
                Which just tells what the hell is in this issue
        2. Disclaimer
                A legal thing that probably would not help in court anywase
        3. More About IRG
                Tells whats coming up from IRG and any new member
        4. CyberPunk Follys
                A section for Anarchy and other goverment revolting shit
        5. BBSs From Hell
                A bbs list that will at each issue show new bbs that I have
                discovered, and once in a while be compiled to some Ultiment
                Elite BBS list
        6. Letters From Prison
                The section wanted most, about hackin', phreakin', killin' and
                maimin'
        7. Hellos And Goodbyes...
                Hellos and goodbyes
        Well thats about all, I am going to need your help doing this so PLEASE
send in some letters...

4. CyberPunk Follys
        I just got my hands on The Anarchist Cookbook and will be typing up a
few fun ideas from it.
        Idea #1...
                Converting a Shotgun Into a Grenade Launcher
        A 12- or 16-gauge shotgun is propped up with a set of folding legs, so
to form a tripod,with the butt of the gun being the third leg, at about
45-degree angle.  The angle can be varied, for aiming , by moving the legs back
and forth.  To build a grenade launcher, one must take an open shell and remove
the shot(which is quite easy).  Once this is done, replace it with a smooth
clyindrical stick, which has been cut down to a close fit.  When the shell is
loaded into the gun the stick should extend out of the muzzle of the gun.  To
the extended portion, a flat rubber base should be fixed and a "Molotov
Cocktail" placed on it.  This will send burning bottles over a hundred yards
with a good deal of accuracy.
        Idea #2
                           A Molotov Cocktail
        A "Molotov Cocktail" is a bottle filled with a flammable liquid such a
gasoline, mixed with oil or soap powder to thicken it.  A fuse, usually a rag
soacked in gasoline, is attached to the cork, lit, and thrown.  The bottle
breaks on contact with another hard object, and the gasoline ignites,causing a
burst of flame.  These were used with a degree of success in Hungary, against
things as big as tanks.
        Idea #3
                    How to Make Nitrogen Tri-iodide
        Probably the most hazardous explosive compund of all is nitrogen
tri-iodide.  Strangely enough, it is very popular with high school chemists,
who do not have the vaguest idea of what they are doing.  The reason for its
popularity may be the ready availability of the ingredients, but it is so
sensitive to friction that A FLY LANDING ON IT, HAS BEEN KNOWN TO DETONATE IT.
The recipe has only been included as a warning and as a curiosity.  IT SHOULD
NOT BE USED.
Preparation for making nitrogen tri-iodide:
        1. Add a small amount of solid iodine crystals(which can be baught at a
chemistry store) to about 20 cc. of concentrated ammonium hydroxide(ammonia).
This operation must be performed very slowly, until a brownish-red precipitate
is formed.
        2.  Now it is filtered through filter paper, and then washed first with
alcohol and secondly with ether.  Your done...

        WARNING: Tri-iodide must remain wet, since when it dries it becomes
supersensitive to friction, and a slight touch can set it off.

        Next time I will have Smoke Screens, How to Use a Garrot, How to Make
Smokeless Gunpower, and How to Make Tetryl.

5. BBSs From Hell
        Here is the first installment of the BBS list, if you would like you
bbs on an upcoming newsletter please E-mail me(Haywire AKA Insanity).

Board Name                      Phone Number          NUP          Sysop
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Insanity Lane                   619-591-4974          Last Try     Insanity

Well thats the list for this issue...

6. Letters From Prison
        Since IRG is just back, I have recieved no letters yet.  Usualy this
would have 3 or 4 letters from Eliteist who would like to tell you people about
how to hack GEnie or something, but this time I will just tell the world how to
card yourself something free.
        Credit Card Fraud is a fedral offence and if you are caught you are
likly to be made to play golf on some prison for a few years, but don't worry
it is relitivly safe and fun.
        The first thing you are going to have to do is get a credit card.  CCs
are rather easy to get, infact this is the easyest part.  The first way is with
a credit card number generator.  There are a few programs going around that
will generate CC number, most of them are good except you won't have the name
of the owner or the experation date.  If your lucky you will find a company
that does not care whose card you are using and you can card till you have
everything you want.  With a CC generator you can also use the number for long
distance calls but I believe that when you are using a CC it is recorded
someware and if you are caught it would not be worth jail for a few dollar
phone call.
        The second way is to hack a credit card number from a bank which is
pretty damn hard and I have never done it so I am going to skip that part.
If your into digging in peoples trash you can do that at night, best to look 
behind large companys and resturants.  You will find the recept which should 
have the number, the owners name, and the experation date.  This is all you 
need so your ready, the only problem with this is sometimes the recept is
fucked up and you can't tell what the number is or the signature is so
outlandish you can't read it.  The best and last way is done by breaking into a
neibors house and writing down his number.  You can also car hop and just hope
to find a car with a credit card in it.  Make sure to leave everything they way
you came so that the owners of the car or house will not know that you are
going to use there CC.
        After you have obtained a CC the next thing you need is something to
order.  Find a few mail order catalogs and your set, order the most expensive
things that don't have serial numbers if you are planing to sell the loot.
For example jewelry is a great carding item.  Most CCs have a limit which can
be checked by calling a certain phone number which I don't have since I don't
usualy worry about it.  The best kind of card is a Platinum card, which poeple
like Donald Trump own, so if you happen to get your hands on one of them you
can order whatever you want.  Gold cards come next and you can order pretty
much anything you would like, if your worryed about the limit, order the item
then the next day call back and check if the item was sent.  Make sure when you
order the item you call from a pay phone and you act as if you are the owner of
the card.  And don't order it to your own house, which brings us to the next
part...
        This is the hardest of all the carding steps.  Finding a house to order
the item to.  Its best to use a vacant house or a house where the owners are on
a long vacation.  If this is not avalable then you can send the item to your
freinds house, there he should let the UPS(most things are UPS)man drop it off
at his door.  DO NOT SIGN FOR THE PACKAGE!  After the UPS guy is gone grab the
package and bring it over to your house and there you go you got it.  When the
UPS people come and ask your friend if he knows anything about the missing
package you can just say no and ask if the UPS poeple would like to search his
house.  Of course they will not find anything so he is safe.  Only send
packages to the same freinds once or twice.  Well I think thats all, OOh yeah
only use the same CC once.  If you have any questions or articals that you
would like to put in the next IRG news, please contact me....

7. Hellos and Goodbyes
        Well this is the end of the second IRG newsletter.  I hope you have
enjoyed what you have read.  So until next time...

        Hey Reformer, just because you got busted does not mean your Elite!!!
        Remember I taught you everything!!!!
        PHA whats going on?
        Knavery why are you always down?
        Big Brother Is Watching
        Who Watchs The Watchmen
        FREEDOM OF SPEECH!
        
        
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is an Official IRG Newsletter (C) 12/10/90 All Rights Reserved
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Give me a call at
Insanity Lane
(619)591-4974
NuP: Last Try

Downloaded From P-80 Systems 304-744-2253


Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253 12yrs+
