MONEY INCORPORATED DIGEST #5
RELEASED 22 FEB 1994
TODAY'S TOPIC: DO-IT-YOURSELF DRUGS
TYPED BY: SONIC FURY

                             Heavenly Hawaiian Punch
                             $$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$ $$$$$

   A Do - It - Yourself Drug Recipe By Sonic Fury/***>$ Money Inc $<***


                              2 oz Southern Comfort
                              1 oz Vodka
                              1 oz Grenadine
                              6 gm Heavenly Blue Morning Glory Seeds
                                   Orange Juice
                                   Slice Of Orange

Morning Glory Preparation:
$$$$$$$ $$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$

   When purchasing the Morning Glory seeds, It's best to stay away from
specialty garden shops and such.  Purchase the seeds somewhere that sells
garden suplies, but is not a specialty garden or flower shop, such as Lowes
or Hechingers.  The drawback with purchasing at a non-specialty shop is that
the packages are usually labelled "For Planting Purposes Only" and are
French imports or American seeds.  This means they are probably coated with
toxic fungacides which react violently with your stomach acids.  I purchased
seeds in a specialty garden shop which were Holland imports, and I came
across no adverse affects when using these seeds (incidently, the package
was just labeled MORNING GLORY Clarke's Heavenly Blue).  These were $.25 for
a 400mg pack.  Lowes selles seeds that are $.87 for a 1.5gm pack.  Anyway,
it should cost around $4 for the trip, which is comperable to good acid.
Make sure you purchase enough for between 5 to 8 grams total, 6 is a safe
'first time' number.  Make sure you purchase Heavenly Blue seeds, and not
mixed or any other Morning Glory variety.  Heavenly Blue contain 0.813mg
alkaloid/gm seed material.  Other varieties cantain 0.423mg/gm or less.

     Dump all the seeds into a bowl and allow the seeds to soak in Zippo
lighter fluid.  This removes most fungacides which could cause irritation.
Allow the fluid to evaporate.  Wash the seeds off in hot water.  Allow the
seeds to further soak, this time in alcohol (use a little of that vodka).
After about 1/2 hr of soaking in each fluid, rinse the seeds off in hot
water one final time.

     Now for the hard part.  After thoroughly washing the seeds, you need to
grind them into a fine powder.  The best way to do this is to use a pepper
grinder.  Take this powdery mush and allow it to soak in the Southern
Comfort, Vodka, and Grenadine mixture.  The best way to do this is to pour
the required alcohol into a tupperware container, put the mush in with it,
seal it, shake it really well, and allow it to soak in the alcohol for 30 to
45 minutes, shaking periodically.  After the mush soaks in the alcohol,
drain the liquid through a coffee filter.  You should have a putrid looking
liquid and a pile of mush.

Mixing The Drink
$$$$$$ $$$ $$$$$

     Pour the alcohol mixture evenly into two highball glasses.  Fill the
glass with orange juice and shake.  If you wish, prepare the orange juice
before hand by letting the morning glory mush soak in the orange juice, then
filtering or straining it out.  Top off with a slice of orange, and chug it!

EFFECTS AND AFTERMATH
$$$$$$$ $$$ $$$$$$$$$

     Morning Glory seeds, especially of the variety Heavenly Blue, contain
ergot alkoloids which are used in the synthesis of LSD-25.  The main
constituant of the seeds is ergine, or d-lysergic acid amide. Ipomoea
violacea contains the minor alkaloids d-isolysergic acid amide (isoergine),
chanoclavine, elymoclavine, and ergometrine (ergovine).  These incidently
are on the government's 'watched' list.  What am I saying, in English?  You
get a legal alternative to acid.  After the effects of the alcohol wear off,
you're trippin!  You shoot the two drinks, the vodka & SoCo buzz you, then
you start trippin on a shroom-like trip.  If you're a brave soul, you can
eat the mush, or drink it down.  You'll trip ALOT harder, but you'll
probably puke, cause the seeds have natural toxins.  It's definently not a
mind blowing trip like acid, but more mellow and just visual.  You're mind
may be racing, and you may be hallucinating off your ass, but you're not
incoherent like when dosing.  Sentences actually do make sense.  It's a real
cool stoned visual delight.


$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

***>$ Money Inc $<*** is : Sonic Fury, Sleepy, the Big Ch33s3, & Method Man


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                                NIRVANAnet(tm)

 &TOTSE                510/935-5845   Walnut Creek, CA         Taipan Enigma
 Burn This Flag        408/363-9766       San Jose, CA                Zardoz
 realitycheck          415/666-0339  San Francisco, CA    Poindexter Fortran
 Governed Anarchy      510/226-6656        Fremont, CA             Eightball
 New Dork Sublime      805/823-1346      Tehachapi, CA               Biffnix
 Lies Unlimited        801/278-2699 Salt Lake City, UT            Mick Freen
 Atomic Books          410/669-4179      Baltimore, MD               Baywolf
 Sea of Noise          203/886-1441        Norwich, CT             Mr. Noise
 The Dojo              713/997-6351       Pearland, TX               Yojimbo
 Frayed Ends of Sanity 503/965-6747     Cloverdale, OR              Flatline
 The Ether Room        510/228-1146       Martinez, CA Tiny Little Super Guy
 Hacker Heaven         860/456-9266        Lebanon, CT         The Visionary
 The Shaven Yak        510/672-6570        Clayton, CA             Magic Man
 El Observador         408/372-9054        Salinas, CA         El Observador
 Cool Beans!           415/648-7865  San Francisco, CA        G.A. Ellsworth
 DUSK Til Dawn         604/746-5383   Cowichan Bay, BC         Cyber Trollis
 The Great Abyss       510/482-5813        Oakland, CA             Keymaster

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
