Welcome to Money Inc.Digest #2
by Sleepy/Money Inc.

DISCLAIMER:  DISCLAIMERS SUCK!!!!!  WE ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY IF YOU ARE A TOTAL
MORON AND GET CAUGHT DOING ANYTHING WE SUGGEST, IF WE WERE TO SUGGEST ANYTHING THAT
WOULD GET YOU INTO TROUBLE.  SO THERE.

Money Inc. is: Sleepy      Sonic Fury

Today's topic is Narcs, and how to deal with them.  This is a personal sore spot,
seeing as how a person close to me was recently busted for a crime that went undetected
for a long stretch of time, and was all of a sudden tipped off by an anonymous fone
call.  Anywayz, enough of my rantings, that will be dealt with in another issue....

Say you were busted for stealing something, drug possession, or any thing else you
shouldn't have been doing.  The first step is to try to find out who the narc was.  The
comes the fun part.  To exact revenge you can:

   1: File a bogus tax return in their name.
   2: Wardial his house....
   3: Blotto box his house (can be done by zapping his fone box outside with an
      electric cattle prod or stun gun)  This will fuck up every fone in the house
      as well as any modems on the line...computer too if the modem is internal!
   4: Break into his house and steal shit....(usually easier than you think!)
   5: Drive your car through his yard....
   6: Take out ads in local swingers magazines (preferably gay ones) in his name
   7: Put his house for sale in the newspaper
   8: If you have access to CBI or TRW, fuck with his credit rating
   9: Make fone calls from pay fones using a red box, and call his house....they can't
      harass you, but they sure can harass him!!!!
   10: The options are limitless, so I'm not going to list more...I'm sure you hve a
       few old anarchy textphiles around....

The point is, that you must exact your revenge and you must do it without any
suspicion.  That's the hard part...in order to not arrouse suspicion, you must wait for
weeks, months, or longer....befriend the person.  At least ignore them...NEVER LET THEM
SEE YOU ANGRY!!!  This is the key...you can get away with murder (literally) if you
keep your cool.  Just remember....DON'T GET MAD...GET EVEN!!!!!

Some of you may say "Hey this guy doesn't sound very right-wing!  He sounds like a
commie pinko anarchist!"  Well, my response is FUCK YOU!  Right wing extremism is based
upon the notion that you look out for yorself and those that you care for first, and
evrybody else can go swing on Bill Clinton's left nut for all you care.  You must not
trust everyone, because some left-wing pinko will try to tske your money or your
freedom and give it to some towel-headed camel jockey who owns the neighborhood 7-11.
Stand up for your rights, and when the day comes that the liberal media and government
have gotten out of hand, be ready and prepared to fight to reclaim America for the
people who belong here....the cool people....all lamers can go jump off the White House
roof or impale themselves on the Washington monument!

COPYWRONG 1994 SLEEPY (MONEY INC PROUCTIONS)
ALL RIGHTS TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED DUE TO CIVIL UNREST


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                                NIRVANAnet(tm)

 &TOTSE                510/935-5845   Walnut Creek, CA         Taipan Enigma
 Burn This Flag        408/363-9766       San Jose, CA                Zardoz
 realitycheck          415/666-0339  San Francisco, CA    Poindexter Fortran
 Governed Anarchy      510/226-6656        Fremont, CA             Eightball
 New Dork Sublime      805/823-1346      Tehachapi, CA               Biffnix
 Lies Unlimited        801/278-2699 Salt Lake City, UT            Mick Freen
 Atomic Books          410/669-4179      Baltimore, MD               Baywolf
 Sea of Noise          203/886-1441        Norwich, CT             Mr. Noise
 The Dojo              713/997-6351       Pearland, TX               Yojimbo
 Frayed Ends of Sanity 503/965-6747     Cloverdale, OR              Flatline
 The Ether Room        510/228-1146       Martinez, CA Tiny Little Super Guy
 Hacker Heaven         860/456-9266        Lebanon, CT         The Visionary
 The Shaven Yak        510/672-6570        Clayton, CA             Magic Man
 El Observador         408/372-9054        Salinas, CA         El Observador
 Cool Beans!           415/648-7865  San Francisco, CA        G.A. Ellsworth
 DUSK Til Dawn         604/746-5383   Cowichan Bay, BC         Cyber Trollis
 The Great Abyss       510/482-5813        Oakland, CA             Keymaster

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
