

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####       ## ##   ## ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  ##           ##      ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  Less Known Dilemmas  ]                   [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________



                            LESS KNOWN DILEMMAS
                       by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu




In this file you will find five different dilemmas, rather common in real
life. I do not claim that these are especially good ones - but, then, even
the enigmas invented by Zeno and his friends back in the good old days are
claimed to be false too. So, at least I am in good company.



(1) THE ANDERS/ELLEN PROBLEM

Anders and Ellen are a happy couple that suffers from the minor malady that
neither of are able to stand large amounts of alcohol, but they cannot stop
drinking after the first drink (a very common habit.) Therefor, both of
them are trying to prevent the other one from heavy drinking at parties, so
that the evening will not end up at a puke-o-rama at the toilet.
   A/E has bought a bottle of whiskey, that they have decided to enjoy this
evening. If we suppose that the bottle contains around 10 drinks, and that
A/R are only able to drink 2 each before they end up at the toilet, it means
that they will start preventing each other from drinking after 2 drinks.
When E has poured the third glass, A will take it away, and vice-versa. But
the drink A has taken away from E, he will drink himself (due to the 'cannot
stop' phenomenon). The drink that E has taken away from A, she will drink.
So, by taking away each others drinks for the sake of not ending up at the
toilet, the result will be that they both end up at the toilet, saying their
prayers to the porcelain throne the whole night.


(2) LENNY'S DILEMMA

Lenny is a calm man who never hurts anyone, except when he is insulted.
At a bar, he meets an individual, A, who claims that all people who are
named such a criminal name as 'Lenny' are, by nature, violent people (A need
not to know Lenny's name) that attacks other people without reason. Lenny is
not a violent man, but since A at the bar indirectly insults him by claiming
that he his violent, Lenny will get violent and punch the smart-ass in the
face. This means that the individual will say that he were right, and that
Lenny was a violent man, even though Lenny is not.
   (A quick objection to this idea is to say that Lenny is, de facto,
violent since he actually hits A. But then you have missed the 'without
reason' point, and the deduction from the indirect insult.)


(3) BACKFIRE OF AGONY

Eric cannot write on his Masters essay if he is in a state of agony. It is
due to be handed in the end of this term, and Eric has decided to begin
writing tomorrow.
   But for every day that passes, Eric feels more and more distressed due to
the fact that he has not written anything yet. If we suppose that agony can
be measured on a scale: 1, ..., N, were 1 is minor agony and N (infinite
number) agony deluxe, and that a state each state prevents him to write the
same number of pages, Eric cannot write the first page tomorrow since he is
in state of agony 1. The day after yesterday, Eric will be in state 2 of
agony, and will be even less able to write something. When the semester is
over, Eric cannot have finished his essay since he cannot get out of the
increasing states of agony.


(4) THE PARADOX OF EGO-FILES

Let us suppose that the levels of egoism in a group of people who produces
an e-zine can be divided into three; 1) no egoism whatsoever, 2) normal
level of egoism and 3) incredible egoism.
    Those who writes files that are meant to the expose how wonderful the
particular group they are members of will end up in 2. But those who do not
write any such files will not end up in 1. Instead, they will end up in 3.
This is because the fact that they do not write ego-files will show that
they are so self-occupied that they believe that need not to write such
files. Therefor, the group that do not write ego-files will be regarded as
more egoistic than those who do. This paradox can be a bit more easy to
understand if you consider the slogan "modesty is the art of encouraging
people to find out for themselves how incredibly wonderful you are."


(5) THE IMPOSSIBILITY TO BE YOURSELF

Agent A is a person who is very strange, i.e. he is not like everybody else.
He acts in an uncommon way and has weird interests. He is like this because
he wants to be himself, thus not conform to the more 'common' people and
become a person who is not.
   But since he does not act like the 'common' people, these people will
believe that he is pretending to be someone else (because they compare him
to themselves), and therefor demand him to be 'himself' and stop 'acting.'
   If A begins to act like these people, they will happily conclude that he
is now 'himself,' while the truth is that he is not. In the end, the agent
cannot escape to be, or be regarded as, someone who is not what he is, but
what he is not.




---
My best regards to Anders Nygards, Ellen Pollack, Lenny Sonesson, Eric
Sundelin, the global e-zine scene and Karin Hakansson who invented these
'problems' without really knowing about it.



    ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                   Aim! Reload! Aim! Reload! Aim! Reload!
        Nothing to do? How nice. CALL THE STASH +46-13-READINDEXFILE
    \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

                         three, two, one, robot

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #295              Underground eXperts United 1996              uXu #295
                   Call DESTINY STONE II -> +61-9246-3491
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

