

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##      ## ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #     ####      ##  #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##    ##   ##   ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   #######   ##    #######

         [  Power Check  ]                           [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________




                                  POWER CHECK
                       by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu


(Ex Hypothesis;)

I can explode, emotionally. If I do that, hell will be visible to all of you.
You will suddenly be aware of the fact that there are things worse than death
itself. But it all depends upon if you do it or not. It is all up to you.
   If you do that, I will kill you. Not by death - by other means; you see, a
person is able to stay alive, even though she knows that her life has passed;
that nothing matters anymore, that everything has came to an end. That is the
way your life will be, if you do that.
   No, do not believe that I exaggerate. I am capable of deeds that are far
more evil than merely putting someone to death. I will take advantage of all
knowledge I have on that subject - if it turns out to be necessary. There is
no need to fear me, however, because I am not a pile of dynamite that might
explode without any apparent reason. You are holding the match, only you are
able to light the fuse. Since I have now made you aware of these facts, you
have no excuse if the time comes. You are fully aware of the power you have
in your hand; you cannot deny it.
   In your eyes, I see that you want proof for my statements. Merely
producing words will not convince you. And I ask myself: why do you need
proof? What would it change if I lied? Will you stay away from doing that,
merely because you do not want me to explode? Is that all there is? If the
question is answered in a positive sense, the fuse has been lit. But if that
is not the case, you are playing with your doom anyway, without knowing it.
You see.  You are then not interested in proof for the sake of the truth, but
for the sake of curiosity. This curiosity I cannot satisfy. If you want to
know how it feels to be burned alive, you must be burned alive. Descriptions
on how it feels are never enough; they cannot produce the sensations you are
after. The only thing that can produce such sensations is the fire itself. If
I explode, only because you want me to, you will experience the fire. But
when you are convinced, when your need to know has been fed, you have
destroyed yourself. So do not ask me to prove what I say; the result will
always be something you really do not want.
   Do you fear me now? There is no reason to. If you feel horrified, it is
not my fault. There is no need to be afraid of a gun, what you should be
afraid of is the one who is holding the gun. You are holding the gun, the
barrel points at your face and only you are able to squeeze the trigger. So
do not fear me, because I am just the gun.
   But if you are afraid of yourself, tell me why? Is it because you know
that you might be able to discharge the weapon? If that is the way you think,
the gun has been loaded. Then I can understand your fear. "What should I do?"
is the wrong question. It is not what you do, it is what you are. Pure
existence is the same thing as doing something, and if you are something that
might squeeze the trigger, you ought to be afraid. Because then, you have
already killed yourself. You have lit the fuse.  You have lied to me. Your
masquerade is coming to an end; you are about to show me your real face. And
if it is ugly, which it certainly is if you must hide it behind a mask, I
will explode; and the bullets will spray the area.
   Maybe you do not like the way I talk. Maybe you feel that I am black
mailing you. Maybe you feel like you have been put in a cage, because your
freedom has been limited and is controlled by me. If that is the way you are
thinking, you are wrong. I know that is it not so that you are 'free' because
you are  holding the match to the fuse and can only light it yourself. I am
not that stupid. What is the problem, if you feel that you cannot let go of
the match, nor the dynamite, because then it will ignite spontaneously? And
this is what you believe are what limits your freedom: you are committed to
me in a way that makes it impossible to leave me. If you leave me, I will
explode, you think. If you do not leave, your freedom is severely defect.
   You have missed the point. I will explode if you leave me, but then you
will be so far away that the blast cannot hurt you. Your sincerity will save
you. So you are free to go whenever you want. I will only explode and take
you with me into the crater if you do something you are forbidden to do. And
that is only one single thing, and you know what it is.
   "But!" you say. "Even though I am free to leave you, the fact is that you
will explode. And I do not want to see you spread all over the area, you say.
So I cannot leave you!"
   I hardly believe it really matters to you. You only say this because you
think you must pour water on me now and then to keep me cold. If you leave
me, I do not matter to you anymore, and thus it does not matter if I
disappear. There are no middle ways - it is either, or. That is how such
emotions work.  I would really like to expand this to say that it is human
nature. But I am not sure, and I will not open myself to yet another
discussion that misses the real point of the subject.
   I am merely performing a power check.


   /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
             Unfortunately, the masses cannot use simple FTP.
      Therefore, we have WWW sites. Example: www.algonet.se/~daba/uxu
   \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

    History is the sum total of the things that could have been avoided.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #376              Underground eXperts United 1997              uXu #376
                    Call THE YOUNG GODS -> +351-1XX-XXXXX
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

