

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ## ##      ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #     ####  ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##      ## ##   ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  Bukowski's Birthday  ]                    [  By Joseph  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________


                             BUKOWSKI'S BIRTHDAY

He hated birthdays. He had always hated them. It had always been embarrassing
and boring on his birthdays. Not only do you get older and uglier, no it
has to be confirmed and celebrated too. Gifts are given from people one
never wants to meet. Distant relatives suddenly come to life and give away
socks and homemade boxes covered with a pathetic texture. He had a ton of
worthless gifts in his garage. It was only a few days left and his wife
Jessica and his children ran around in the apartment, fixing everything that
needed to be fixed for the great event. He sat, bored and apathetic, in his
sofa and observed them. The longer he sat there, the more he realized that
they did not run around for his sake. They did it because they suffered from
a twisted need to expose him like some wrinkled freak that had less time to
live left. He just could not understand why it was necessary to celebrate
birthdays; it was such an incredible, stupid, idea. But it was too late to
cancel the whole circus. He was forced to experience it all over again.

   Jessica woke him up on his birthday, bringing a little chocolate cake and
a cup of tea. He felt sick, and his head hurt after yesterday's whiskey
session. He sat up on his elbows and scratched the mess out of his eyes.
He tried not to aim his breath at her. No children this time, he thought.
One of the worst things he knew was to be woken up by screaming and drooling
kids. When he thought about it, he realized that he hated to be woken up
every time when he had a hangover.
   "Happy birthday, darling!"
   "Go to hell."
   "Couldn't you at least be a bit nice, for once, when I wake you up?"
   "Not on this particular day. I find it pretty annoying to know that I
only have a few years left before some disease that can't be cured probably
kills me."
   "At least you could blow the candle."
   He blew the candle and placed his own saliva right onto the cake. His
wife wiped it away without a blink, as if it had been something less
revolting.
   "After you've had some cake, I'll give you a little surprise."
   "If it's another tie, I'll break your neck."
   "Nope, it's something I have never given you since we got married."
   He drank some tea and ate the cake. The cake reminded him of excrements.
Drinking tea and eating a cake that looks like the shit you produce after
too much booze is not amusing at all. At seven o'clock in the morning, it is
terrible.
   "I can't get any more of this cake down my windpipe. Gimme that surprise
now, and then I'll get back to sleep."
   Jessica placed the dish with the worthless cake beside the bed. She had a
robe that was a bit loose. He could see her wrinkled tits stretch down
towards the stomach. He had seen enough of that body during the twenty years
they had been married.
   She pulled down his boxer shorts.
   "Yesterday, I suddenly realized that I hadn't given you a blow
job since the day we got married, twenty years ago."
   She put the dick in her mouth and began to suck.
   He immediately realized that he had not missed anything during those
twenty years.
                          written by Joseph <josef@kuai.se>


 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #356              Underground eXperts United 1996              uXu #356
                     Call BLACK OPIUM -> +1-701-523-5909
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

