

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ## ##   ## ##   ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #     ####  ####### ##   ##
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##      ## ##   ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  Encounter With The Populace  ]  [  By Joseph & The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________




                         ENCOUNTER WITH THE POPULACE
                  endured and written by Joseph and The GNN


     This is a transcript of an actual conversation. It took place
     at the Indian Palace pub in Gothenburg (Sweden), February 15
     (1997), during a minimalistic, but charming, uXu-gathering.

[A pleasant evening in a crowded and smoky bar turned into a living nightmare
as the attention of some poor uXu members was suddenly called upon by yet
another bragging ignorant slave of the system. The slave in question was a
drunk woman in her mid-thirties.  Her interest was our political standpoint.
Obviously, she did not know whom she dealt with. If she had, she would never
ever had confronted us with the ridiculous question:]

   "Are you right- or left-winged?"

[Needless to say, this question was not intended as an invitation to a
political discussion, but more as an embarrassing attempt to get laid.
However, members of the uXu do not copulate with pseudointellectual and
frivolous barflies.]

   "We find the question in itself annoying. You expect us to choose between
two alternatives, none of them appealing. Our main principle in life is to
develop ourselves and others. Therefore, we cannot walk left or right;
because that implies no progress. The only way to go if one want to get
somewhere, is the most underestimated road of them all; namely, the one that
leads _forward_."

[A puzzled expression spread over the face of the woman.]

   "I see..."

[Note how the above statement is completely inconsistent with her follow-up
question:]

   "Eh... now what the hell does that mean?"

   "Practically speaking, it means that we do not descend ourselves to choose
between right or left. Neither do we vote, nor do we accept the institution
of voting. We do not accept 'democracy', on the basis of it being inherently
oppressive by its very nature - thus a threat to human fulfilment. We oppose
this inadequate system. Political labels are the work of less intelligent
people, but in spite of better words we call ourselves anarchists."

[This humble fact clearly upset the woman. She cleared her throat and leaned
over to our side of the table, as if she was about to share something of
great importance and wit with us. That, however, was not the case:]

   "Anarchists? So you want anarchy, yes? That's horrible! A society that's
based upon anarchy would be completely chaotic! Everyone would kill each
other, drugs would flood the streets, no one would feel safe!"

   "Please do not speak if your only aim is to expose your lack of knowledge.
You are clearly confused concerning the basic principles of anarchism."

[Short pause. A fuse burned in the head of the woman.]

   "Oh... oh, really? Well, uh, what's anarchism, to you, then?"

   "Anarchy is a state of affairs that involves the most complete and total
freedom that is conceptually possible."

[Using the filter of ignorance that interprets everything said into nice
newspeech (most modern people are equipped with this feature), the woman
managed to misunderstand the whole statement.]

   "So? I mean, was that it? I mean, that's just the way our society is
constituted today. Democracy! Freedom! No dictatorship. Simple as that."

   "'Democracy' does not imply freedom. It only says that the people in a
society are personally involved in choosing the ones who rule. Of course, the
rulers are also supposed to make decisions that adhere to the public
interest. Needless to say, the latter is not the case in our world. This is
because it is impossible to make decisions that will satisfy all interests.
Therefore, democracy can only exist in a pseudo-form, hence it is inadequate
as a pragmatic political system.
   You connect 'freedom' with 'democracy' because you have been taught that
'democracy', like 'freedom', is a concept that contains positive value.
'Democracy', however, includes _more_ intrinsic value, according to you, and
can thus override 'freedom'. Nothing could be more wrong. While 'freedom' is,
by definition', positive, 'democracy' is strictly neutral. It only
_describes_ a state of affairs, it does not _judge_ this state of affairs.
   If it was not the case that you, and people like you, applied positive
value to 'democracy', it would not work. Democracy only works if people
falsely believe that it works. Tyranny (as we will find in a dictatorship),
on the other hand, does not require that the masses incorporate false beliefs
into their minds. A tyrant can fight all opposition with force, but a
'democratic ruler' cannot do that. He must convince the masses, with lies and
soft force, that his position is for the best. You believe that this is the
case, you are fooled. Order is high, but the truth is even higher. Therefore,
an honest dictatorship is more true than a false democracy.
   But anarchism, on the other hand, requires no deception and no tyrant. It
is a state of affairs that is judged positive, since it includes no neutral
concepts but only positive ones - as 'freedom'. Dare not say that it includes
negative values like 'chaos', because chaos is also a neutral value. It
becomes negative in relation to other values that you _falsely_ believe to be
positive, that is all.
   Hence, we ought to bring forward a state of affairs that is 1) true, 2)
carrier of positive value, and 3) possible. The only state of affairs that
make this happen (bearing in mind that we seek what is good for the humans,
not the abstract 'state') is anarchism."

[Now it was time for the woman to present a good con-argument. As expected,
she failed big time:]

   "Everything you say _sounds_ good. But that's all. You paint a picture of
a world that doesn't exist, and cannot exist. Our world is, and will always
be, ruled by the free market. This is the hard reality. You are childish
illusionists.  I'm a realist. Your ideas doesn't fit with the real world."

   "Let us make one thing perfectly sparkling clear: the thing you refer to
as 'the hard and unchangeable reality' is not any form of 'reality'. You
confuse the meaning of 'realism' with 'dogmatism'. You are convinced that
something is the matter (market rule) but you do not stop there. You also
believe that this is, by necessity, some kind of eternal fact; likewise, the
hard-core Christian believes in God, but do not stop there. Instead, he
continues to make up certain rules and eternal 'facts' from this belief. And
suddenly, the Christian does not only believe that he believe in God, he
believe that God (and all principles that follows from that concept) is a
matter of unchangeable fact. Nothing could be more wrong.
   The only thing that one could for certain refer to as 'the hard reality'
is the concept 'anything goes'. To deny this obvious fact is to be mentally
insane - like you. 'Anything goes' is, ceteris paribus, a true normative
ethical standpoint. All standpoints that are incompatible with this truism
(like 'anything goes not') are by necessity false. Since morality is made for
man, not man for morality, we ought, for the sake of humanity, not spread or
accept false ideas.
   However, 'the state' is not interested in the human good, only its own
good. Therefore 'anything goes' has been removed from the public sphere,
thanks to millenniums of state propaganda. 'Anything goes not' is what the
state wants you to believe, 'anything goes' is what common (which
unfortunately is not so common nowadays) sense says."

   "Okay then, now explain to me: how would it look if you got the power in
our society?"

[The statement above is interesting because the woman assumes that she
herself cannot play any active role in changing anything. This is, except for
the obvious ignorance, the most scary part. Only after talking to us for a
couple of minutes she is ready accept us as the 'new leaders'.]

   "There is no such thing as 'power' in such a society. In fact, it is
hardly a 'society' at all. The reason why you ask such a question is because
you are conceptually confused. This confusion stems from the fact that you
have been brought up with these terms, like 'power', in an indoctrinative
manner. You 'know' that 'society' needs someone in 'power', i.e. you connect
the very concept of 'society' with 'power'. However, you do not really know
what the concepts mean. You only repeat things you have been taught, but you
have never questioned the things themselves."

[The woman tried to save her own face by a classical argumentum ad hominem:]

   "My God, what a load of bullshit... You just talk. You just produce words.
You don't know what you are saying."

   "On the contrary. _You_ are using words without meaning. We, on the other
hand, use them perfectly correct. That is the difference between you and us.
We understand the full meaning of the words we are using, while you
shamelessly - without really knowing about it - merely abuse them."

[Kindergarten semantics and basic human psychology was not the woman's
strongest side, so she decided to quickly change the subject:]

   "Yeah, yeah. Whatever. Tell me, how's all this supposed to be carried out
in _practice_? By which means will you create your... world?"

   "By all means necessary: terrorism, that is."

[We find it rather strange that the woman did not react more emotionally than
she actually did:]

   "What?! But that's... outrageous!"

   "A person can live his whole life with a bad tooth. He can live with that
pain. He does it because he knows that if he pulled out the tooth, he would
for a short moment experience a pain that is far greater than the pain he now
experiences. But if he actually removes the tooth, his life will become much
better - there will be no pain at all.
   People like you are only aware of feelings like pleasure and pain. When
you feel pain, you run away. Those things that give you pleasure you stick
to. The society of today offers you a drug that gives you a nice and drowsy
pleasure; and that drug is ignorance. You fear knowledge, because that will
make you experience pain. Therefore, we must give you your needed pain. We
must kill you, so that you can be born again."

[By this stage, the woman had nothing better to say than:]

   "I still don't buy your arguments! I don't find 'em good at all."

   "We know. We did not expect that either. You see, people like you are
beyond any kind of help. You are, and will always be, the populace, the
plebs, the mob. You have been programmed to uphold the existing system; that
is your only task in life. We cannot convince you - but that is no problem,
because we do not have to. It is in your nature to be ruled. You know no
better, because you do not _want_ to know any better. If you wanted to know
better, you would be like us. But you are not. Our mission is not to convince
you that you are wrong.  Our noble mission is to save you from yourself.
   It is wrong and inappropriate of you to say that you do not 'buy' our
arguments. Because the real truth is not that you do not accept them, the
real truth is that you do not _understand_ them."

[The lights turned on, and you could clearly see that the woman felt quite
relieved from that. She quickly left the table and headed for the exit. But
before that, she said goodbye. And so did we, in the most correct and
suitable manner of them all.]

   "Oh, well, it has been a nice chat. But they are closing now, so I ought
to get going. Thank you and good night!"

   "Suck our cocks, bitch."

[End of transcript.]



 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #390              Underground eXperts United 1997              uXu #390
                    Call SOTH'S DOMAIN -> +1-401-463-8889
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

