

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##      ## ##   ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #     ####      ##  #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##    ##        ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   #######   ##    #######

         [  Alienated Relationships  ]               [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________




                           ALIENATED RELATIONSHIPS
                       by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu


Interpersonal relations of the kind we refer to as 'love' are complex
matters. If conducted the right way, they can offer happiness and a life
filled with joy. Conducted the wrong way, misery and depression will be the
case.
   In this file, I will present an outline of five different relationships
that are essentially conducted the wrong way (Balance of Terror, Show-Off,
Dominators, The Trapped and Everything is Wonderful). I am not claiming that
these examples are the only ones available in our huge world, nor would I
like to say that my descriptions of them are perfect. It is up to the reader
if he or she will accept my statements, or draw other conclusions.
   What must be remembered, however, when studying these different
relationships is that the persons involved actually fancy each other. But
they are unable to enjoy their love to the fullest extent, due to their
inability to cope with various problems.


  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


(1) BALANCE OF TERROR

   In such a relationship, A (and perhaps even B too) suffers from certain
   personal problems.  These problems are so deep that A refuse to cope with
   them - not even for the sake of the relation with B.
      There is a sense of selfishness in effect in this case. A believes that
   her/his problems are the most important factors in her/his life (i.e.,
   even more important than the relationship itself). To a certain extent,
   this is really true: the problems _are_ great, since they make A's life
   essentially fragmented and incoherent. But still, A refuse to really deal
   with them (since it is a somewhat difficult task). Instead, A will fall
   into depression, self-destructive behavior (like suicide attempts) and so
   on. B will notice the destructive behavior of A, and this is naturally
   very distressing for B. Since B cares for A, he or she does not want A to
   behave like that.
      So what will B do? Do he/she help A to get to the real problems and
   deal with them? Unfortunately not. Instead, B offers a 'balance of
   terror'. When A becomes depressed, B will become even more depressed. If
   the A tries to commit suicide with a knife, B will try to kill
   himself/herself with a gun.
      For short: whatever A tries to do, B will do the same, but with more
   energy and force. In the end, A will not dare to do anything at all, since
   he or she is afraid that B will do something even worse. But even though
   the self-destructive behavior might not be that obvious anymore, after the
   balance of terror has worked out, it is still there. Why that is the case
   is simple: the balance of terror solves no real problems, only their
   symptoms.


(2) SHOW-OFF

   The show-off couple suffers from an inability to discuss their problems
   with each other. Their only way to be able to do so is with other people
   around them, people that they can use as 'help' when the discussion
   becomes too painful.
      Talking about personal matters are not all that easy, that is a fact.
   Sometimes, it is even harder to talk about personal problems with a person
   that is clearly involved as a part of the problems. And this is something
   that the 'show-off' couple suffers from.
      In the privacy of their own home, the couple will hardly discuss
   anything at all, except for daily matters. But when other people that they
   know well come into the picture, the show begins. It usually starts with a
   simple quarrel over something less important, but as the hours pass by, it
   increases into screams concerning deeply felt emotions (no positive ones
   though) concerning the other part.
      Just as the couple are on their way to reach the real problem with
   their relationship, they run away from each other, and seeks cover at a
   friend. Then, with the friend, they discuss the real problem. When
   finished, they return to each other to continue arguing. But they never
   ever come to the real problems when discussing with each other, since they
   dare not to. They are afraid that their relationship may come to an end if
   they talk about such matters, and it is because of this they flee to
   friends.
      (If you are going to throw a party, be sure to not invite a couple that
   are alienated from each other in this way. They will ruin the whole
   evening by constantly demanding the people to pay attention to the
   couple's private problems.)


(3) DOMINATORS

   A dominator is a person that needs to be in control. One dominator in a
   relationship could cause problems if the other part does not fancy being
   dominated. But in such cases, they often fall into the (1) or (2)
   category. If both of the persons are dominators, the effects will be
   rather different.
      A double-dominator couple will constantly argue with each other, but
   their discussions will not be about something important. They argue with
   each other, not because they want to solve problems, but because they need
   to control the other part. Since both of the persons want to have the last
   word, they will keep on arguing forever.
      Needless to say, this means that their life together will consist of
   nothing more than eternal discussions without a point. Eventually,
   however, one of the two persons might give up and become a pseudo-
   dominated person. 'Pseudo', since the person is in fact, still a
   dominator. He or she will not accept this position.  Due to this, adultery
   is very common among dominators, since they constantly look for another
   person to dominate.

   (There is a subgroup to this relationship that acts exactly like raging
   dominators, but is different in the aspect that they actually want the
   other person to dominate too. The reason for this is sexual. They spend
   their days dominating each other in public, arguing and fighting, just for
   the sake of the sexual act that will follow later: a so-called
   'reconciliation-fuck'. They 'hate' each other now and then, so they will
   be able to show their affection by 'forgiving' each other later.)


(4) THE TRAPPED

   A couple that is trapped are unable to break up, even though they ought
   to. The reason for this could be various. For example, A dare not leave B
   since A believes that B will break down completely if their relationship
   ends. But on the other hand, B is also aware that he/she would in fact
   break down if the relation came to an end; so, in a sense, both are
   trapped.
      Unlike the dominators, the trapped couple will not argue with each
   other. On the contrary, they will hardly even talk to each other. They
   spend their time with each other in silence, thinking about their annoying
   situation. It is possible for the trapped couple to stay with each other
   all their life, experiencing a constant feeling of anxiety. They want to
   talk to each other, they want to tell the other part about how they feel,
   but they dare not.
      A trapped couple could _look_ like a category (5) couple, but they do
   not belong to that category. If they do not stick to each other their
   whole life, however, it is possible that _the result_ will be equal to the
   end that awaits the category (5) couple. But that is not always the case.


(5) EVERYTHING IS WONDERFUL

   This is a relationship that will come to a horrible end. The couple do
   suffer from fundamental problems, but they deny this fact not only in
   front of others, but also in front of themselves. They try to live their
   life like if their relationship actually were wonderful, but they are more
   or less aware of the truth that it is built upon a lie. Even though the
   problems might be rather simple, they never deal with them. Instead, they
   suppress them, and this will slowly increase the simple problems into
   giant ones.
      Unlike the category (4) couple, these persons talk to each other. But
   their discussions will be far away from the real problems. They look like
   they are happy together, while in fact they are not. It is often quite
   easy to detect if a couple are like this, because their false behavior
   will shine through. If you discover that a couple among your friends are
   an EIW-couple, take cover. The way this relationship will end is not a
   funny sight.
      Since it is a hard and tiresome work to constantly try to look happy,
   the couple will sooner or later become worn out. When this happens, they
   will suddenly turn into two persons that behave as if they came directly
   from hell. Through the years, they have suppressed their feelings to that
   extent that simple annoyance will turn into anger and hate. If they do not
   kill each other, they will spend the rest of their lives in something that
   is not wonderful, but terrible.
      Due to the monstrous and uncontrollable rage they experience when they
   have reached this point, it is common that they bring other people
   (friends, relatives, etc.) with them into the terrible life that awaits
   them.

  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


It should be mentioned that the above examples are not relationships that are
beyond help. The remedy for all such problems is not psychological games,
alienation or self-deception, but intimacy, honesty, and the most important
factor of all: real communication, in time.
   One cannot, however, teach someone what 'real communication' really is.
This is something that everyone knows what it is, but often denies, since it
is sometimes a very painful thing to bring forward. But suppressed pain will
not stay suppressed forever. It will, sooner or later, come to the surface.
And the pain that then will be the case is far more hellish than the pain one
would experience if the problems were discussed the very moment they came up.
   You better understand those simple facts, not only for your own sake but
also for mine. I am sick and tired of spending time with alienated, narrow-
minded and self-occupied couples. Okay?



   //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            No one is a 'persona non grata' when it comes to uXu!
       Join us! Write a file! Send it to: uxu-request@lysator.liu.se
   \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

                               Nerd Wide Web.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #379              Underground eXperts United 1997              uXu #379
                Call UNPHAMILIAR TERRITORY -> telnet upt.org
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

