

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####       ## ##           ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #   ####### #######     ##
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  ##      ##   ##    ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### #######   ##

         [  Respublica  ]                            [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________


                                "RESPUBLICA"
                        by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu




   The television set screamed out the latest football results. The beer in
his hand was cool and strong. The sofa had, after ten years of use, finally
adjusted itself to his heavy body and swallowed him like a soft cloud when
he sat down. The cat slept next to him. His wife had left him several years
ago. The children were gone and never called. He was alone in the apartment.
The next football game was about to begin. Nothing could possibly ruin this
evening, he thought and reached for the remote control on the dirty table
in front of him.
   Then the telephone rang.
   "Yes?"
   "Is this Henry Abraham Coppel?" asked a strange happy male voice.
   "Yes..." Henry replied and leaned backwards, so he could see the TV from
the hallway. He wondered why the guy on the other side of the line had used
his middle name, but that question did not bug him for more than two
seconds. The game was about to begin. He had no time for conversation.
   "Mr. Coppel! How nice to speak to you! My name is..."
   "Whatever you wanna sell, just mail it to me and I'll send it back after
two days, okay? Bye."
   "Hold on!"
   Something in the voice persuaded him to not hang up.
   "Don't tell me you're my ex-wife's new lawyer?"
   "No, no," laughter, "I am from the government..."
   I am dead, Henry thought. They think I work for the CIA because I just
watch television all day.
   "... and You, Mr. Coppel, are the most important man in this country at
this very moment!"
   "Mmm?" Henry muttered and tried to move the TV to the hallway with his
mind. Something had happened, someone had probably scored, and Henry just
had to see who. "Could you please wait?" Henry said and rushed to the TV.
   Deluxe had scored. Henry screamed in joy and gulped down the beer. He
hugged the cat and danced back to the phone.
   "Back. Now, what did you say? Something about me being the most important
dude in the world?"
   "In this country, Mr. Coppel! In this country, Amerida! Amerida needs you
to listen carefully! Amerida needs you sober and fresh! Amerida needs you to
chose between the Blue Party and the Red Party!"
   Henry sighed.
   "I never vote. I'm opposed to... walking. I don't fancy standing in a cue
just to feed some low-life politicians."
   "We know."
   The voice sounded understanding.
   "... and besides, wasn't the last day for voting yesterday?"
   "True."
   "How nice. Now listen to me, dear whoever-you-are. Today is the Day."
   "The... Day?"
   "Yes way!"
   "Way?"
   "The Day that Deluxe play against Frontlines! And I rather shit in my
pants and walk to the north pole to ask Santa Claus for a piece of folded
toilet paper than miss that game! So now I'll..."
   "Listen to me Mr. Coppel. I could have you killed in less than thirty
minutes. Do as I say. Chose between the Red Party and the Blue Party. Now."
   Henry said nothing. His mouth remained wide open and his finger still
pointed at nothing in the air.
   "With all due respect Sir," Henry said, "may I ask the simple but perhaps
important question why?"
   "Of course! We are here to serve you, and you serve us by telling us who
you want to be your servants! People voted yesterday, that's true! We had
the greatest percent of people voting for years! Ninety-nine comma nine nine
nine nine nine..."
   The man said 'nine' for several seconds.
   "... nine nine percent! Everyone voted in Amerida! Everyone rushed to
the booths to fulfill the democratic way! Everyone! Except one person;
you! You! We need your vote to make this country a symbol of the democratic
free west! Everyone must vote!"
   "I see..." Henry said and wondered if his favorite color was blue or red.
   "Yes! There's another thing involved too..."
   "I'm listening."
   "You see, the Blue Party and the Red Party got fifty percent each. This
means that your single vote will determine who the winner is. Or let me
dress this situation in other words: the future of our children and our
position as an economic power lies in your sweet hands, Mr. Coppel!"
   Henry dropped his beer. The crash woke up the cat. It yawned and stepped
down from the sofa. It decided to visit its' personal bathroom.
   "Me?" said Henry with a weak voice, his face turned plain white.
   "Yes! You got five minutes to decide! We'll call you back! Bye!"
   Click. Henry held the phone in his hand and stared at the wall in front
of him without a word. Then he shook his head and threw the phone back on
hook.
   "Where the hell is that damn propaganda?" he muttered and began to rush
through the apartment. He looked everywhere; in the trash can, under the
sofa, on all shelves, in the fridge and so on. He had to find the damn
propaganda. He had to form an opinion.
   Then he saw the propaganda. His cat were in the process of soiling it
with excrements. Henry had placed the propaganda in the cat's litter box.
Henry rushed to the cat, tried to kick it away but failed. He fell flat on
his back. From his position on the floor, he saw the television right above
his head.
   "This man is the judge! This man is God! This man is Henry Coppel, the
one that will decide our future! Yes!"
   A hysterical voice declared the facts while an old ugly photo of Henry
dominated the screen.
   "Oh no," Henry muttered, "what will mom say about this?"
   He did not have to wait for the answer. The telephone rang again.
   "... you, who cannot even take care of your old mother! You, who didn't
learn how to separate right from left before the age of twenty-one! You!
You are about to vote for my future! I've never heard such a load of..."
   Henry put down the phone and went back to the litter box. He took up two
wet papers and began to read.

    WE ARE THE RED PARTY                 WE ARE THE BLUE PARTY AND
    AND WE LOVE YOU SINCE                WE LOVE YOU SINCE YOU WILL
    YOU WILL VOTE FOR US!                NOT VOTE FOR THE RED PARTY!

   The rest was just pictures of lions, deers, elephants, mice, cats, dogs
and a bunch of other animals playing happily with each other. Henry cursed
the lack of information and threw the papers away.
   He sat down in the couch and stared at the photo of himself that still
occupied the television-screen.
   "His name is Henry Abraham Coppel, a normal citizen you would say. But
Henry is far from normal. He is the man who carefully carries the whole
Amerida on his back. He is the one that will decide if Amerida will turn
into the Eden of Lust, Paradise on Earth, or if we will have to flush down
our country down the misery drain! Yes, this is Henry. Let us all hope that
Henry knows what's best for us! Let us pray!"
   Henry screamed. He screamed and screamed. He did never want to quit
screaming. Then the telephone rang again.
   "Have you decided?"
   "Well... uh..."
   Henry heard his voice through the TV.
   "Yes!" Henry yelled. "The... the... uh...the....uh... Blue Party!"
   Some unknown crowd cheered and clapped their hands on the TV. Balloons
wearing the Blue Party logo flew on the screen. People hugged and kissed
each other before they started to cry in joy. Henry stared at the circus
before he hung up. Then he sat down and waited for the football game to
return.

   However, Henry never got the chance to see the football game. A few
minutes after he had made his decision to vote for the Blue Party, two
members of the fringe terrorist group No-Democracy-Please (NDP) broke into
his home and assassinated him.
   In the end, perhaps that was the best thing that could have happened to
Henry. The Blue Party later turned out to be a gang of extremists, who
enjoyed to execute random parts of the population for fun and profit. The
Blue Party was - of course - regarded as a menace to Amerida, and the rest
of the world. But people just grumbled and muttered something when they
talked about them. The real debates, those who contained screaming people
and fist-fights were not at all about the Blue Party nor its members.
   When people wanted to get really upset, they just cursed that idiotic
individual who had voted for the worthless Blue Party live on TV; Henry
Abraham Coppel. People could never really agree on how he should have been
punished if he had been alive.




   /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
             Ostensibly a discussion about the nature of justice.
     But in real life just a BBS: THE STASH +46-13-READINDEXFORACHANGE
   \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

                             Freedom in a cage.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #267              Underground eXperts United 1995              uXu #267
                    Call SOTH'S DOMAIN -> +1-401-463-8889
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

