

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####       ## ##   ## #    ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #   ####### #######   ####
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  ##           ## #    ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  Freedom In A Cage  ]                     [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________



                             FREEDOM IN A CAGE
                       by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu


                 "It ain't what a man don't know that makes
                 him a fool, but what he does know that
                 ain't so."
                                  (Josh Billings, 1919)



Ignorance rules the world and everybody enjoys it. If you do not need to
think, then global problems will be replaced with small, worthless, but yet
easy ones. The population in the free west believes that they have came so
far concerning something they refer to as 'progress' that they need not to
use their brains anymore. In a sense, that is rather good. Because if the
ignorant population suddenly became aware of their present situation, chaos
would break lose. A trapped bird feels free as long as you do not open the
door to the cage. If you do that, and the bird escapes, it will feel free
for a few moments before it is slaughtered by the wild animals in what could
be called 'the real world.'

    This text deals with the phenomenon 'freedom in a cage.' Most people
live in a cage and do not want to get out. Once you have tasted really real
freedom, you cannot go back to the trapped state again and feel good. No one
could force herself to such advanced self-deception. But the life in the
cage is a secure life. It contains no dangers, but it contains no adventures
either. It contains easy obstacles, even though the ignorant people believes
the obstacles in there are 'a part of the hard reality.' There is no such
thing as 'reality' in the cage. The reality that the trapped experiences is
a  false view of the world.
    So, what kind of 'reality' do the people in the cage see? They see
something that is like a television show, written and directed by themselves.
In that show, so-called 'everyday' problems are in focus; Get a 'good'
education, find a 'good job', then die in peace. Three obstacles, all of
them without meaning in the real reality.
    Of course, the people in the cage see such things as 'global' problems
too. But they are wrong when they think that those 'problems' are the real
global problems. The people in the cage wonders, for example, "How can we
end this war?" while the people outside the cage, who looks at the people in
the cage, thinks "Look, now they are fighting in the cage again."

    When you take life seriously, you do not take it seriously. Mutatis
mutandis; when you do not take life seriously, you take it seriously.
Because then you have understood more than most people. All people who walks
around and talks about how they are 'taking life serious' in 'the hard
reality' are misguided. They are ignorant, on the border to stupid. They
will never develop their minds, because they are trapped forever in the
cage. There is just one exit. Some people are able to find it, some are not.
Some are lucky, and some are not. It is as easy as that.

    As said, it is better if most people remains in the cage. The cage ought
to be filled to the limit with ignorant people, it ought always to be on the
limit of exploding. This is because most people would not be able to handle
the reality outside the cage. They would feel disorientated, strange and
confused. All 'secure' platforms would be gone, and suddenly they would
be forced to think for themselves. That would not be possible, so the
confused ones would go insane and desperately try to find a way back to the
cage. But there is no way back, so they would try to exterminate everybody
outside the cage, so they would, together with the remaining fools, be able
to construct yet another 'secure' cage which they could climb into. A mission
that is doomed to fail. If the ignorant masses stepped out of the cage, the
world would fall apart and there would be no more cage, just chaos.

    You are nothing, you can do nothing, you will never be someone in the
cage. You will be like everybody else. Naturally, that is how things _are_
- not how you are _experiencing_ these things: You believe that you are
something, that you are special. But that is not true. You are like
everybody else. You feel misunderstood, you feel that people do not
understand you, nor your so-called 'talents.' You believe that you will
change the world somehow. But the world cannot be changed from within the
cage. That is the hard truth, but you will deny it. If you did not, you
would lose your personal meaning of life, and that is the worst thing that
could happen to a human being.

    I know some people wants to know how to get out of the cage. But by
merely asking that question, you have lost all your chances of getting out.
You will walk around, wearing sunglasses on a cloudy night, believing that
you are open-minded and clear-sighted. That is nothing to be ashamed of. The
people outside the cage will appreciate you, as a house appreciates its
rusty nails.

    In fact, you ought to remain the cage. There you will feel free, without
the need for thinking. The rest of us, however, will never return. Do not
expect us to come back to rescue you, because the real reality is much
harder, in the intellectual sense, than you think. Lean back, enjoy the
fantasies that pops into your ignorant mind, because the real reality is not
easy to cope with.

    Freedom in a cage!




   /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                 'Inte en sadan DAR fil IGEN?' (Phearless)
            Tja, varfor inte? Sa talade: GNN@KRILLE.UPDATE.UU.SE
   \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

                                 Filth Pig


 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #293              Underground eXperts United 1996              uXu #293
                  Call CYBERPUNK SYSTEM -> +1-316-942-0064
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

