

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ## ##   ## ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #     ####  ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ## ##   ## ##   ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  Stockholm At Midnight  ]                 [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________




                           STOCKHOLM AT MIDNIGHT
                      by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu


[stockholm at midnight:]

   "...and so I told this guy how much money I make and he just laughed and
said that he played in some fucking band that makes 'alternative techno', I
mean for Christ's sake, who fucking cares about some faggot with a beard from
the sixties and yellow glasses, spending his days vomiting on himself at some
art school, who tries to beat me when it comes to success..."
   "Wow..."
   "...can you imagine, and, and and, you know what happened next, hmm, well,
I tried to explain to this low-class jerk that web-design is an art, yes
indeed, and it makes so much money, yes indeed, but the freak refused to
listen to me and turned to the girls instead and started boasting about how
much weed he consumes every day when he 'expresses himself' with his fucking
band, and they said that he was so cool, a true 'urban performer'..."
   "Yeah, know what you mean..."
   "...and then I got really pissed and said that 'listen to this guy he is
fucking insane while I am a normal human being' and then they all turned
against me and claimed that I was a 'slave of the system', shit, what a load
of crap, and then we went down to the Trap Bar where everybody, yes fucking
everybody, either tried to get laid with the latest DJ wanna-be or puked on
the floor singing the latest one-hit-wonder tunes, for Christ's sake what is
wrong with ordinary Costello..."
   "True, man, true..."
   "...and this idiot with a T-shirt that said 'The Chance That You Will Get
AIDS Is Less Than 1%' asked me if I had some E to sell to him, and I just
sneered and told him to get a life, yes why not a life like my life, a good
work, good values and nice clothes, Jesus, of course he didn't get it, I
better go to some places with charm next time, however, then this girl showed
up and asked me if I could 'take her to heaven', I guess she saw what a
stallion I were, but when I told her that my place, you know my luxury
apartment, was right around the corner she started telling me that she loved
her fucking mother and she would go insane if she died, who fucking cares,
and I just said 'come on, let's have some fucking fun', but did that help, no
no, she wanted me to become some damn shrink for her and I said..."
   "Wow... yeah..."
   "... that 'either we fuck or we screw or you get lost', gee that's a great
line, hey, and someone wanted to start up a fight, should have recorded his
damn words and put them on a web page, yeah, but that guy with the beard and
the yellow glasses suddenly showed up and tried to act cool only because they
had had some gig on that club, ha ha, so he came to me and said 'you are not
hip', and then I said that I watch Star Trek every night, so we became
friends, he bought me a beer and explained the purpose with their
techno-band, had something to do with some 'illuminati trilogy', but he was
still a faggot..."
   "Yeah, but hey..."
   "... not to mention his damn friends who tried to sell me a copy of their
promotion-tape, from yet another of these bands no one has ever fucking heard
of and..."
   "Excuse me..."
   "... who the fuck cares if some..."
   "Hey!"
   "WHAT?!"
   "Sorry to interrupt, but do you happen to have a cigarette?"
   "DO I LOOK LIKE A GODDAMN CHRISTMAS TREE? Anyway..."

[etc.]



 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #386              Underground eXperts United 1997              uXu #386
                     Call KASTLEROCK -> +1-412-527-3749
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

