

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ## ##   ## #    ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #     ####  #######   ####
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##      ## #    ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  The Argument Of The Atheist  ]      [  By Intoxicating  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________




The Argument of the Atheist

By Intoxicating

Religion is based on ignorance.

We only need to look back in history to see proof of this fact.  As the first
intelligent cultures began to organize thousands and thousands of years ago,
they had no explanations for the Sun, the moon, the stars, or even why the
grass grew.  They did not understand, so they created explanations.

The source of these explanations usually involved the sky, since it was one
of the few places a human could not travel to.  These explanations also tried
to rationalize such things as the weather, which has always been cruel and
unfair.  Greek mythology of the Sun God, and the Goddess of Love, and these
types of creations were all used to explain the unknown to a human animal
that hungered for answers and for reason.

Over time answers became clear, as a primitive science began to grow.  Soon
things could be explained, or at least enough was known to understand that
there was no Goddess of Love, or a God of Thunder.  Christianity, Jewism,
Hebrewism, and many more religions all have their history and their proof of
the truth.  Each believes that predictions were made into the future, but
aren't all these predictions just a matter of interpretation and perception?
If we want to see something, we do.

In today's society there are still many that believe in a God.  Why? Because
they want to believe in something better then the life they live, or they
hope for something better after death, or they just don't understand how this
world could exist without the power of an immortal powerful being.  In the
case of the first two reasons, they believe in something because they need
too, or because they want too.  In the third case, they believe in something
because science can't explain everything yet, so there is still room for the
miracle work of a god.

To believe in something because of ignorance is wrong.  We can't say God
created the world because we don't know how else it could have been created.
We shouldn't believe in a God because there can be no other explanation for
an occurrence.  Most of all, we shouldn't live in our own world believing in
something because it's easier to believe in, and the facts are hard to
accept.

Religion is far from perfect, but it did serve its purpose at times. However,
as a god becomes less probable, religious leaders should realize that selling
their religion will become increasingly difficult.  Instead, they should sell
morality.  We teach science in school, give the students the tools to
disprove religion, yet we do not teach them proper moral behavior.

Philosophy and courses on logical thinking are a couple of examples of
schoolwork that could expand our minds.  Sure, the morals these courses bring
won't be exactly the same, but they will change with a changing society, and
be followed not based on ignorance, but based on reason and knowledge.

I don't claim to have all the answers, but it's easy to see that religion is
based on ignorance, and as that becomes more obvious, a replacement for
religion is the next step in our advancing global society.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #393              Underground eXperts United 1997              uXu #393
                  Call UNEARTHLY SHADOWS -> +1-303-683-1443
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

