

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ## ##      ##   ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #     ####  ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  #    ##      ## ##   ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  The Point  ]                             [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________


                                  THE POINT
                       by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu


       "En sak har jag lM-^Drt mig. Det existerar ingen mening, ingen
       anledning, ingen poM-^Dng med att fM-^Trklara nM-^Fgot fM-^Tr idioter.
       Ty sanningen M-^Dr att det egentligen ger varken mig, eller
       framfM-^Trallt dem, nM-^Fgot alls - fM-^Trutom ett innehM-^FllslM-^Tst
       slM-^Tseri med tid."
                                         (Phearless)


Now, my friend, it is time to explain a few facts that ought to have been
sorted out a long time ago. But first of all, I wish to inform the public
that this file is not written for everyone. Only those who believe that
they are educated, well-informed and open-minded; because belief is not, and
will never be (no matter what some people say), the same thing as knowledge.
   Often, too often, the uXu crew receive mail, participate in seemingly
endless discussions or listen to raging self-appointed intellectuals whom
all wants to know the same thing: what is the damn point?
   'The damn point' in question need not always be the precise point with
certain files we have written. (What do you mean with this file? Why did you
write it?) Sometimes, curious individuals who demands our attention wants to
know what the point is with the existence of the Underground eXperts United.
(Why do you guys keep on producing all that garbage? What does it give you
(it certainly gives me nothing)?)
   Some (but yet too many) of the interrogators indirectly believe that they
do not need and does not want any answers, since they have already invented
the truth themselves. They do not really know the truth, but still they want
to get their thoughts confirmed from us. In reality, the only thing they
long for is our confession.
   Listen carefully; we will not explain the point, not because there is
none available, but because we know that it is unnecessary and a waste of
time. If you feel that something is unclear, with the meaning of the files
or our humble existence, do not turn to us; turn to yourself. Ask yourself
why you want to know the point.
   It is hard, I know that. But you better try. For the sake of humanity.
   I assure you, the answer you hopefully will find is far more interesting
and important than the one we, if we wanted to, would give you. Because you
will not find any answers, you will just find more questions. And before you
are able to answer those, the point you wanted to know in the first place
cannot be answered. And when you have answered those questions, the point
will, without our help, be available to you.
   The point is always, no matter what it concerns, a complex matter and
cannot be short. You will be aware of that, if you begin to question
yourself and your own thoughts; and most acute: your dogmas.
   It is hard, I know that. But you better try. Because the easy way out of
a problem is nothing than a escape from the complexity, nothing more than
the mere concept itself explains: easy.

   /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
      The women all control their men, with razors and with wrists.
            Hey, hey, somebody dig this: www.algonet.se/~daba
   \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

   It has always been desirable to tell the truth, but seldom necessary.


 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #358              Underground eXperts United 1996              uXu #358
                   Call DESTINY STONE II -> +61-9246-3491
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

