

                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####       ## ##   ## ##   ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #   ####### ####### ##   ##
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  ##      ##   ## ##   ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  Hacker's Paradise  ]                     [  By The GNN  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________


                             HACKER'S PARADISE
                      by THE GNN/DualCrew-Shining/uXu


NOTE: Sir! I would never encourage someone to commit a crime! No way! But
      I do enjoy to state facts to the public. If those facts are regarded
      as dangerous, I humbly suggest that you try analyze why you think so,
      instead of picking on me. Knowledge and truth are intrinsically
      good even if they create annoying feelings. Order is high - but truth
      is even higher. Remember that.




1. INTRODUCTION.

A gun can only be used in one proper way. However, the reasons why someone
decides to use a gun can be several. It can be used for target practice,
hunting, warfare et cetera. The latter can roughly be divided into wars for
freedom or wars for conquest.
   Hacking can be done for several reasons. For fun, for profit or for some
other reason. One of these 'other reasons' may be the protection of one of
the most basic human rights: freedom. If hacking in this sense is regarded
as a weapon, it would be a weapon that is meant to be used in a war for
freedom.
   What is of importance to notice, is that an individual who uses a gun
might not be aware of the potential of his weapon. He might not even be
aware of what the gun does. It fires a bullet, that is true. The bullet hits
something, oh yes. But if the shooter turned to another direction he could
perhaps hit something valuable. Then the result from his Sunday afternoon
target practice would then be something else.


2. WHAT IS WRONG WITH THE COMPUTER UNDERGROUND TODAY?

Good hackers are talented, that is fact. Unfortunately, their talent only
goes so far that they know how to break and enter. This is not enough for
certain reasons. If the soldier only knew how to pull the trigger, he would
not be a good soldier. He would simply be someone who only knew how to fire
a gun.
   So, what is missing? The answer will not surprise you: knowledge. But not
knowledge on how to use the weapon. What is missing is the knowledge how to
properly use the weapon, and why the weapon must be used if he would like
to reach a certain goal. If a soldier without knowledge goes to war, he will
not be aware of the conflict around him. He will just shoot randomly, for
fun or equal. Sooner or later he might hit something. If he hits an enemy,
he  will not know that he has done something 'good.' If he hits one of his
friends, he will not know that he has done something 'bad.' He will be a
blind man who just enjoys to shoot.
   Hackers who just breaks and enters are blind people. They are unaware of
the conflict around them. They do not know that they are the keepers of a
very powerful weapon, that should be used properly. Sadly enough, the
computer underground have not given this problem enough attention. Instead,
it has over concentrated on techniques and know-how. To know how to do
something is good, but not enough.
   I claim that the computer underground today is defective because it does
not understand that it is a part of a global conflict, far serious than the
pathetic ones that are visible on the surface. But what should be done to
repair this defect? I see two necessary actions:

   1) Make people aware of the conflict.
   2) Make people understand that they are actually a part of the conflict,
      and if they want to win it they must use their weapons properly.

   Both aims at the same thing: implanting knowledge. If this knowledge is
spread and understood, hacking will transform itself from being a simple
crime to a weapon that ought to be used in the most important battle of this
century.


3. THE CONFLICT IN QUESTION.

   One becomes very depressed when one reads zine after zine just to find
the ordinary 'we are not pro-hacking, but we are interested in the social,
political and anthropological aspects' crap. Those words used to describe
the so-called 'aspects' are by nature controversial. How can anyone debate
such a subject and remain neutral? No one. It is time for the underground
to stop acting like a scared child and get to the point, loud and clear,
without necessary message-codes.
    We spoke about a conflict. It is now time to shortly begin to explain
the structure and participants of this conflict. To begin, let us draw a
rough distinction: that between the 'real society' and the 'electronic
society.' Is it possible to separate those two? The answer is, to me, a
clear Yes. The conflict is about the latter, and there are two groups who
fight with each other. On one side, we got the system and on the other side
we will find the individuals. The system (I have no better word) tries to
shape the electronic society so it will turn out to be a copy of the 'real'
society with rules, laws, control, all organized and uphold by power and
violence. The individuals wants this last resort of freedom to remain free.
Since I lack a good word for the battle area, let us refer to it as the
'network.' Right now, the battle is about the won by the system. With
night sticks and propaganda, the system has not only managed to scare the
underground to silence, it has also convinced the masses that the
individuals are nothing more than a bunch of criminals who needs to be put
away. If the individuals wants to remain free, not become what Orwell would
call Provos, there is no time to sit around in a corner and hope for a
better future created by someone else.


4. HOW CAN HACKING BE REGARDED AS A WEAPON IN THIS CONFLICT?
 
   The individuals have tried to win this war by propaganda and information
alone. This would have worked just fine, if not the information had been
directed only to those involved, i.e the individuals themselves. The public,
the mob, the masses, is a strong force that is being used as a 'weapon of
majority' by the system. The system will find no problem doing so, since
the individuals do not even try spreading information to the public. The
public will just hear the false arguments used by one side.
   Information needs to be spread, that is a fact. But there is also another
powerful weapon that the talented ones of the underground might use. What
I refer to is probably obvious by now. As the terrorist bomb is mot merely a
fire-cracker that goes boom, so is hacking not only something that can be
done for fun. Saying that it CAN be used in the conflict needs further
explanation. HOW can it be used? WHY should it be used? What will it all
lead to?
   Controlling something implies that the object controlled must be in the
hands of a chosen few. By force if necessary. If the system gets control
over the network, everything is ruined. The real society has then overtaken
the electronic society with everything that means: Violence, threat, state
controlled mobs that raids the net for 'dangerous' information and so on.
But if the system realizes that the object cannot be controlled, the
situation will change. If the network leaks information the system wants to
remain controlled the result will be a chaos in the system. It will try to
cover the holes, without success. Eventually, the system will break down and
leave the individuals as the winners. I am not that childish that I believe
that this will be the beginning of the utopia - more battles will follow.
But it is better to be prepared for more than hide under the table. There
is no need to spend years thinking about how the weapon should be used. As
long as it is used at all, the holes in the object will remain open. If
the weapon is put away, in favor for some ridiculous peace debate, the
system will quickly cover the holes and gain complete control.
   However, it needs to be repeated: a weapon is worthless if the user is
completely ignorant on why he uses it. It could be used for fun, but that
is not enough. It will not take us anywhere. It should be used together will
a rational, clear and aware mind.


5. HACKER'S PARADISE?

   Freedom is not something that is given away for free. It is a shiny
trophy that follows after hard struggle. Just because the rich and complete
utopia is never to be around, the search and fight for it must never end.
We might never reach the paradise. We might just end up in the middle. But
it is better to be in the middle, constantly fighting, than giving up and
sinking into the endless depths of Big Brother control. The invertebrate
underground is going to lose this war if not a radical attitude change is
spread and accepted among the individuals. This is the hard and brutal
truth.


6. NO DISCLAIMER.

   This file has been written for informational purposes. But that says
   nothing. It has actually been written for the purpose of making people
   think. If knowledge is a burden, and spreading facts is considered a
   crime in your eyes then do not hesitate to sue: <GNN@KRILLE.UPDATE.UU.SE>
   If you want to go to war, I will take you to war.




  ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
                  The ones who do not vote, may complain.
        Welcome to the power drome: HTTP://WWW.LYSATOR.LIU.SE/~CHIEF
  \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

                             Proton Pseudos.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #280              Underground eXperts United 1995              uXu #280
                    Call SOLSBURY HILL -> +1-301-649-1631
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

