
                                ###     ###
                                 ###   ###
                      ###   ####  ### ###  ###   ####
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ###    ###    ###    ###    ###
                      ###    ###   #####   ###    ###
                      ##########  ### ###  ##########
                                 ###   ###
                                ###     ###

                         Underground eXperts United

                                 Presents...

         ####### ## ##      #######     # #   ####### ####### #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####       ## #    ## ##   ##
         ####    ## ##      ####        # #   #######   ####  #######
         ##      ## ##      ##         #####  ##      #    ##      ##
         ##      ## ####### #######     # #   ####### ####### #######

         [  Master Mind  ]              [  By Classified Knowledge  ]


    ____________________________________________________________________
    ____________________________________________________________________



                    title  MASTER MIND

                   author  Classified Knowledge
                           (Swedish: Hemligstaemplad Kunskap)

              distributor  Underground eXperts United

              translation  anonymous



My name is Classified Knowledge. I am currently working for a big Swedish
company as a researcher. My research focuses on different medical
treatments for mental diseases. In my job I come very close to people who
suffer from schizophrenia/split personalities and paranoia. They have
volunteered to be some kind of guinea pigs in our efforts to find a medical
cure or treatment for their kind of mental defects. In my work, I have also
learned that there are drugs that alter your mind permanently. By giving a
patient a certain drug, you can make him or her become more or less;
aggressive, sensitive for psychological manipulation, egocentric, et
cetera. This is mainly what my research is about.

  At one special occasion I noticed how patients taking an aggressive drug
clearly affected the other patients, in spite that they had no way of
contacting each other. Not by vision, hearing nor physically. Normally calm
patients got upset and occasionally they even got aggressive. Of course I
got curious about my discovery, so I decided to spend some of my research
time for my own experimenting. I early found out that people are capable of
affecting one another using nothing more than one's mind. My experimenting
is growing ever more intensive. Sometimes even a whole week passes without
me spending a single minute working on the original concept, for which I am
paid. Not one day goes by without some kind of progress in my private
research. I will not quit until I have found out as much as possible on
this subject.

  In this document I will describe some things I learned in the beginning
of my sidetrack research. When the reader is finished reading this text,
there will be no problem trying this out at will. There are no dangers
involved, no risk of getting hurt physically nor psychically. What one do,
is not 'taking over' someone's mind, you just affect, stimulate it. It is
required that you are physically close to the individual, or that you see
the person clearly. It is an advantage if the person in question is busy
doing something, which people are all the time. Basically; the longer the
distance, the harder it is to affect someone.

  Practically you do it like this; concentrate yourself and imagine that
you are exactly where your victim is located. Imagine that you are in the
same situation as the object. If the person is sitting in a chair with his
arms crossed and with his head leaning to the right, you must think that
you are this person - physically. Sitting the exact same way yourself. Now
pretend that you have actually become this person. While thinking you are
in the same situation as your victim, your actual task begins. Picture
yourself sighing, scratching your nose or why not stretch your arms.
Remember that you are supposed to imagine that you are the victim. Do not
try to control someone else from a distance like a puppet - that will not
work at all using this method. You should imagine yourself doing it.
Imagine that You want to do, what you want your victim to do.

  During my testings I have found out that while a person is sleeping,
screaming or crying out loud they are very hard to stimulate directly.
Instead, the effect becomes somewhat delayed instead. It could also result
in a "stimuli" overdose.

  As an example of this I will mention about one occasion when I was trying
to get a sleeping person stressed up, believing that he was very late for
work. For approximately one minute I imagined myself stressed up, while
thinking I was the sleeping person. Thinking I was late for work, thinking
about the boss who would be angry with me, and so on. When the person woke
up a couple of hours later, he fell out of his bed and breathed very
heavily. He had a very high pulse but I managed to calm him down by talking
gently to him. I have not repeated this test since.

  It is much easier to stimulate people this way, if you are located behind
them. I assume it is because of the difficulties in pretending to be
someone that is facing you. This is also the best method of protection
against this form of manipulation. One sure way to avoid getting
manipulated is to look the people you meet right in the eyes. This is of
course not recommended for all kinds of daily situations. However, when
looking into someone's eyes you eliminate the risk of being controlled.

  There are no specific distances to have in mind when you practice your
newly found talent. It is more depending on how well you can see your
intended object. If there is no fog, not snowing nor raining you can affect
people on quite big distances. Binoculars are an extra ordinary good help
when working on distances when you hardly can see your victim.

  It is possible to practice your skills through training. The same goes
for this as for many other things; the more you try, the better you will
become.

  You cannot affect; Animals - though I have not had the chance to try this
on monkeys. People on television, even if it is a live broadcast. You are
too far away to be able to concentrate on the person you are looking at.
Dead things, logically.

  Is it possible to make people do things, which they really do not want
to? The answer is: Yes. You can make a total abstainer become a drinker.
You can make people destroy things they care for. Hypothetically, you can
make people kill themselves, or others.

  If you put your mind to it, so to speak, you can even give people a
motive for doing very strange things. Before, during and after they have
done what you want them to, they will be one hundred percent certain that
they were doing it by their own free will.

  I am not encouraging anyone, but here some situations where you could try
out your ability to impress your friends;

  * Make a priest curse, while their preaching. Guaranteed effective.

  * Make the waiter drop the food, very entertaining every time.

  * Make a police officer break a window, while being observed by hundreds
of witnesses.

  * Make your boss promise you things he is forced to keep.

  * Make your competitors make fools of themselves on important meetings.

  * Get the woman behind the counter to give you too much change back.

  * You get the idea ...

Finally, I will tell you that it is also possible to manipulate people from
any distance. Your so-called victim may be anywhere in the whole world, but
you can still make him/her do anything you like. The techniques to execute
this kind of influence differ from the one described in this document. If
my research is allowed to continue as it has been doing to this day, I will
give out yet another manual on the subject. Since it will be as good as
impossible to protect you from this, I want to be sure that I myself have
it under control, before teaching others.

Signed,

Classified Knowledge, three days to a new year.


DISCLAIMER;

THIS DOCUMENT IS FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY. THE AUTHOR OF THIS
DOCUMENT WISH TO BE ANONYMOUS TO OUR READERS AND TO THE UNDERGROUND EXPERTS
UNITED. THE AUTHOR STRONGLY RECOMMEND THE READER TO BE CAREFUL WHEN TESTING
DESCRIBED TECHNIQUES. BE AWARE OF THAT IT IS ILLEGAL TO MAKE SOMEONE DO
ANYTHING ILLEGAL.

BECAUSE OF THE EXTREME DIFFICULTY IN PROVING THAT ANY OF THE DESCRIBED
METHODS HAVE BEEN USED FOR UNLAWFUL DEEDS, IT IS VERY UNLIKELY THAT ANYONE
WILL EVER BE CONVICTED FOR THIS. YOU ARE "ONLY" GOING TO BE MORALLY
RESPONSIBLE FOR YOUR ACTIONS. WE DO HOWEVER NOT ENCOURAGE ANY KIND OF
ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES.


 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 uXu #239              Underground eXperts United 1995              uXu #239
                  Call CYBERPUNK SYSTEM -> +1-316-942-0064
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

