
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*                                                                         *-*
*-*                                                                         *-*
*-*                TTTTTTTTTT   AAAAAA    NNNN    N      J                  *-*
*-*                    T       A      A   N  N    N      J                  *-*
*-*                    T      AAAAAAAAAA  N   N   N      J                  *-*
*-*                    T      A        A  N    N  N  J   J                  *-*
*-*                    T      A        A  N    NNNN  JJJJJ                  *-*
*-*                                                                         *-*
*-*                         There Ain't No Justice                          *-*
*-*                                   #14                                   *-*
*-*                                                                         *-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*                    Phoenix Modernz Inc. 908/830-8265                    *-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

                        -Going Crazy in the Suburbs: 01-
                                by Hairy Leech

this is a general collection of lousy writings by me. some are letters to
people, some are just things i've written. some are new, some are old. some
were writting specially for this file, others were not. i'll leave it to
you to decide what's what. i'll just insert a handy "---" between each
file, so you know where one ends and the other begins. are you ready? well,
of course you are..

---

the day since i met her.. i can't believe it's true.."

howdy do. i dreamt a little dream this fine morn.

augh. the phone rang. i picked it up. it was teli. i knew it was him before
i even picked the thing up. is it esp? is it intuition? or is he just an
annoying piece of shit? hmmmm..

back to what i was saying.. i have been dreaming more and more lately. i
wonder what changed.. i'm happier now, but that's just because i'm out of
that blasted supermarket.

anyhow. you were in it, i suppose. i don't know what you looked like,
because, well, i would never spot you in a crowd, but it was you, none the
less. atleast, my mind kept telling me it was you. i suppose it was my
mind's impression of you. well, anyway. all i remember is that you were
wearing boxer shorts. i.. umm, well.. errr.. no comment. i don't know what
to think about all this.

it's easter. big whoop.

i won't lose your number. really, i won't. after i scribbled it down, i
took out my dandy black spraypaint and wrote it in big letters on my door.
i don't think i'll lose it. i have never been know to lose a door before.
then again, there's a first time for everything.

tomorrow.. tomorrow.. the sun might burn out tomorrow..

i may even call you this evening.

hold on, teli called back. augh, oncemore. let me babble at him..

easter. what a holiday. we get to eat the heads off of chocolate bunnies
and hunt for color-coated eggs. what fun. this, this is religion? umm..
ok.. sure.

---

hey. listen to this. i have a story to tell. i'll tell it now, so that all
the vivid details come through and all that. i hate forgetting the depth of
my anger and whatnot. so here goes, eh?

i went to new york today. it was nifty. (it's saturday, 15th, i might add.)
on the way home, we (me, my friend teli, his mother, father, and 13 year
old sister) piled into a car and drove. it was roughly an hour and ten
minutes or so of driving. it was about 10:30.

alot happened in that car. it started out that the daughter (the 13 year
old) wanted to tell us (me & teli) about something that had happened to the
mother that day. the mother flipped out, didn't want it told. so the girl
hopped into the back seat and told us anyway.

it was a very daffy story, but i think i'll clue you in anyhow. the mother
was on the phone sometime during the day, and was talking to somebody or
other. the girl walked by, said "who is it?" and a small conversation broke
out. (small, as in only 2 exchanges, and really short ones..) then the
mother slapped the girl.

so, the girl went over and got some raid flying insect spray. she coated
the mother in this gunk, and it made her stink like crazy.

now the mother says it was disrespectfull. now, i (of course) can get all
caught up in this respect shit. allow me to do so. maybe it wasn't
respectfull. so? on the one hand you have fighting fire with fire. on the
other hand, i don't see how she can respect the mother anyhow. i don't
respect people unless they have something to teach me. and it seems to me
that all the mother can teach is anger and unwarrented attacks and narrow
mindedness.

at any rate.. the conversation got full of wind with respect. then it
shifted on over to rights. the kids (teli + 13 year old) said something
that the mother didnt like, supposedly a curse or something. then they got
onto what was a curse and what wasn't.

meanwhile, i was sitting by counting stars. i didn't think i should say
anything. it's their family, right? right. so i shut up.

then, however, the father reaches over the backseat of the car, and begins
striking the girl. multiple times. on the head. closed fist.

well, as you would have guessed, quite a many things went streaming through
my mind at that moment. the first and most horrid thought was "where does
parental punishment end, and child abuse begin?"

the night, however, was just beginning.

i was quite appalled by now, so i stuck my big nose where it didn't belong.
i started relating everything to politics and dictatorships and all sorts
of other things. now the the kids were happy, because they had a neutral
observer seeing things their way.

teli, at one point, told his parents they might as well shut up, because i
had them boxed in. i felt good.

so then things began to unravel. i mumbled something like "i don't think i
want to come over anymore, i don't want to get beat up for my opinions."

i think a few others came out that weren't too great for my standing with
the folks. i remember saying to teli that "..i just have to smile when i
think about the way your parents blame me for all this secretly.." it's the
truth, you realize. freethinkers bring everyone down.

okay.. so we eventually arive at teli's suburban dwelling. the folks vote
to take me home because they had enough of me and my opinions and my
thought-out thoughts. teli piled in the car and went along for the ride.

i got out at my house, teli got out, hell broke loose.

teli asked me if he could stay at my house. it seems his father used that
old line "my house, my rules." teli, i found out, had challenged him in the
car, so his father told him he didn't live there anymore.

so, i said "fine."

his mother, the twitchy rabbit type of person, went hysterical. she wanted
to wake my parents up at 12am and mull it over with them.

well, i had been very cheery and nice and compliant up to that point. here,
however, i told her to forget it. i told her i didn't care if her son
stayed or not, and that it was their problem to work out. i didn't want
anymore. you can only take so much..

it ended up that they pulled out of the driveway. "whew!" i exclaimed.
then, to my disgust, i saw the stoplights up the road a ways.

the mother came back, wanted to use the phone to call the cops. seems that
teli jumped out of the car and ran into the woods. the mother said if she
found out he came to my house that she would sue my and everyone i know. i
gave her my cordless and went to look for him, to prove i had nothing to do
with his hauling ass.

as i walked down the flooded road (it was raining) i got splashed, no,
drenched, with mud and water. just thought i would say that.

so i found him where i pretty much expected him to be, and i told him the
situation and the cops and all that. i basically told him that what he does
is his buisness, and that i personally supported him. i told him, however,
to do whatever he was going to do away from my house. that's the last thing
i need now - more cops. i feel like a backstabbing bastard for this, and i
suppose i am.

it ended up that he was just going to get back in the car and go home.
along the way, he said he was going to jump out at a stoplight or
something.

well i haven't heard anything yet..

i read your letter. i remember you said you didn't want to have kids. well
hey hey hey, it looks like we're riding the same bandwagon. i don't want
any part of this child-raising bullshit.

it was an educational evening, i must say. i remember saying that talking
to his parents was like talking to a brick wall, it just dosent work. then
a little later i said something like "you don't talk to brick walls, you
break them down.."

teli told me that he didnt care what happened, he just wanted to get his
family into some sort of counceling. it seems like he should be the man of
the house, atleast he can tell when there's a problem.

after the girl got hit, she went to say something else. (that's why she got
hit, for voicing her opinion..) teli tryed to make her shut up, and she
said that she didn't care if she got hit again, maybe he'd hit her harder
and she could just die.

somebody stop the ride, i just can't take it anymore.. 1:19am. i am sure
this night is going to burn into my brain along with all the other
hardships i have seen..

i was so happy today. damn it to hell..

---

it's still easter. i just learned of a stupid thing.. a really stupid
thing. teli's 14 year old cousin (female) wants to (and i quote) "go out
with me". can you see what makes me think this is so idiotic, or should i
explain? well.. just to be on the safe side. the whole "going out" thing
never appealed to me to begin with, because i think it changes the way you
act around people. i mean, if you like a girl, why should you rush out and
tell everyone you're "going out"? what difference does it make.. i suppose
this is why i think getting married is meaningless. it's the feelings, ya
know? of course you do. besides that.. i mean, jesus christ. it's only a 3
year difference. i dunno.. i don't know how i can explain it. it just
dosen't sit right with me for some reason or other.

want to hear something funny? she grabbed the phone out of teli's precious
little hand and started asking me questions. this was fine and dandy
because i'll answer just about any silly question you can think up. but
then after oh, a good 45 seconds or so, she asks me "are you a virgin?"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------*
WHAT THE FUCK KIND OF QUESTION IS THIS FOR SOME GIRL WHO DOESN'T EVEN KNOW
ME TO BE ASKING?!
--------------------------------------------------------------------------*

it just strikes me funny is all. i am, and i told her that, and i also told
her i didn't see as it was the sort of thing you ask someone you don't even
know.

maybe you can figure this out. i mean, well.. what do i mean? i suppose you
know what it's like to be treated like a thing rather than a person. this
is a new experiance for me, however..

adkokjhfkakhfkfghkg!?!! i'm going nuts in his crummy fucking suburb. i'm
going to come up there some day.. some day soon. i won't tell anyone i'm
coming, either. i'll just wake up and say "hey ma, i'm going to boston."
then i'll just get there. i don't care how. i'll walk, i'll take a bus..
anything. i'm going to come up there and find out where you live. i'm going
to come up there and beat on your door until someone answers. and then,
then i'm going to bother you until you just can't stand it anymore. want to
know why? do ya? do ya, huh? so you can feel what it's like to live in the
boonies. that's what these bastards are like.. they're just hicks living in
condos. you can't shut 'em up and you can't tell 'em anything.. they'll
just keep annoying you and annoying you until you go off and kill 'em. you
read about it in the papers, i'm sure. about the isolated murder out in
east bumble-fuck, new jersey.. know what it is? it's some intelligent
person who finally broke down and couldn't take it anymore.

i mean this. really. i can't shut the phone off, the critters call the
other line they're not even supposed to know about. if they can't reach me
by phone, they drive over and come in. they don't knock, no no no.. they
just open the door, strut on inside and yell "honey, i'm home!" and then
they clomp up the stairs, because they are just too damned dumb to walk
like a human being. instead, they stomp.. maybe they're trying to scare off
small animals, i don't know.. they come, they come and they find me.. they
bother me and ask me stupid half-ass questions because they are too lazy to
think for themselves. and what's more, they ask me about things i don't
even care about.

they ought to nuke the suburbs. just give everybody a week notice, then
just blow the whole damn thing up. let the silly bastards die, that's what
i say. as long as they keep the warning in the newspapers, only the
intelligent people will know. hillbillys can't read worth a damn, they just
watch cosby and.. and.. and mtv for christ's sake. that's reason enough to
blow them to itty bitty bits.

am i too offensive tonight? i don't know anymore..

--- 
 "reality is the only word in the language that should always be used in
  quotes.."          - my life with the thrill kill kult

 today's the 21st. keep that in mind. yesterday we (me, teli, and sam)
hopped in the car and jauntered off on a shopping extravaganza. let me
explain all this..

 about 4-5 months ago, this kid adam from new york ordered an american
express card. that was fine and good. not too long ago, maybe 2 weeks ago,
he got another card issued. now this is what he did. he had teli sign the
card, then go to stores and buy things. fine. then adam wanted to call up
american express and go "where the hell is my card at?" that way, he gets
free goodies and no bills. no worries. fine. dandy. what an idea. hell, its
just one of the loopholes in credit cards. i heard on the news today that
it's a $1 billion per year operation. someone's definately got their shit
together. anyway.. teli came back from new york with the card. adam got
what he wanted, a super-nintendo, so he didn't care what teli bought. want
to hear? lookie:

 - portable c/d player          ($150)
 - 2" portable t.v. ($150)
 - 6 c/ds                       ($80)
 - car stereo                   ($200)
 - assorted car stereo shit     ($50)
 - 400 watt amp for stereo      ($250)
 - answering machine            ($150)
 - radar detector               ($150)
 - car alarm for all his shit   ($100)
 - 5" black and white t.v. ($75)
 - assorted t.v. shit           ($25)
                              ---------
        ye grand old total: $1,380 (all figures approximate, of course)

 that's not to mention the shit he bought adam in new york. all together,
about $1,600. want to hear what he got me? 2 c/ds out of everything. well..
he felt sorry about this, so we went out again today with some of his
insane greek relatives. he wanted to get me a $700 camcorder, the lunatic.

 here's the story. we drive for an hour or so northward 'till we find a
store that's both open and carries camcorders. it turns out to be radio
shack. he buys a $799 model because it's on sale, and, of course, 2 blank
tapes to go with it. damage done: $892.51. crazy fuck. so they check the
card, and it wants the store to do a referral. what this means is they have
to call in the card with the real phone and talk to them. they do that, and
american express wants to speak to teli in person. they tell him that
someone or other has rung up over $3000 worth of merchandise in the past 3
days. they wanted someone to call them and verify that teli was the real
cardholder.

 so. with this, we told them to hold the thing, we would be back later with
either cash or a check or something good like that.

 now let me explain what all just happened. you see, we were abusing adam's
second card. it was tied up in the computer, connected to the first card.
and adam, being a dork, had his mom and dad co-sign or something or other
for his first card. amex wanted teli (who they thought to be adam) to call
his mom and dad, and have them call amex to o.k. the purchase.

 we drove to a payphone. i was going to be adam's dad and call up. i did.
fine. we didn't realize the cards were strung together or how his parents
fit in. i was winging it. the first call got fucked. i was messed up,
pumped up on the adrenaline from the thought of stealing almost a grand's
worth of merchandise. that, and we had been listening to the revolting
cocks. i was wacked beyond belief. i couldn't think straight, so i bashed
my head into his car hood 2 or 3 times.. cleared me out really quick. i
made a second call, realized how everything worked, then realized we needed
adam's original card number. adam wasn't home. radio shack still has the
camcorder.

 we got back in the car and headed out for some food and relaxation. just
about then, i realized my head was bleeding like mad. seems when i rammed
my face into his hood, i hit right where the hood and the side of the car
join. the space between them ripped a nice sized gash in my otherwise
beautiful forehead. i poured blood for a few minutes, they put the cocks
back on even louder, i was in the back, the bass was making my chest
vibrate. either my head stopped hurting, or i stopped caring, but i didn't
feel it anymore and i didn't care about the nice red blood stains all over
my face.

 we fucked around, ate something, i don't remember what. greasy pizza, i
think. yeah, probably. his car stunk. i think his engine's fucked up. stank
like hell. we had the windows down as far as they could go. it was cold as
a bitch, i didn't care anymore.. noone did.

 i'm home now. my head barely tingles. nice bump. looks like a damned
tumor. glad i don't have to work tomorrow. i'll go out for awhile, when my
charming mum sees it i'll tell her i mangled myself skateboarding. telling
her i beat my face into a car hood just dosen't sound that good, does it?

 i don't know what's going to happen with adam. he's supposed to call in
the card tonight.

 hey baby, this is grand theft and over state lines. they'll call the feds
in on this.. an investigation will come soon enough. let's hope we weren't
stupid asses and we drove far enough away when we went shopping.

 you realize, of course, if i see a cop car pull in my driveway, i'm going
to end up hauling ass and becoming a faceless blob in the urban landscape.
i'll just have to come and live with you forever. heh.

 no. no i'm pretty sure of this. we're safe.. atleast, i am. i mean.. damn.
i didn't get but $30 out of the whole deal. not that i care, but.. i'm not
going to get pinned with this.

 then again, they can pin anyone with anything, if they really want to. god
bless america, hay?

 amex exaggerated. they must have. $3000 from (at most) $1500? they have to
be kidding. it's the spending patterns.. nothing, then in 2 days, $1500.
crazy. really crazy. there was no question about it, they were going to
think something was up.

 11:01. i need sleep, don't you? of course you do. let me grab 40 winks or
so.. i suppose i'll mail this tomorrow.

 i practically drool when i think of you calling, but i really can't talk
to you tonight. i feel like shit. i'm numb all over and i need sleep more
than anything. can you hear me? you can. you know what i'm thinking, don't
you? please, don't call tonight. really. i mean it. just tonight. i just
need to be alone tonight.. just me and my thoughts. i need to think, i need
to dream, i need to let go of all this..

 justin.

---

i dont know what i'm feeling really. i feel all sick and twisted inside,
and sympathetic to everything, and sorry for myself, and i feel motivated.
i feel driven to do something. i can picture a girl crying, and me
conforting her, telling her it's all ok, even though it isnt. i feel cold,
chilled to the bone. i imagine myself crying, sobbing quietly.

 "creep into you
  i won't go away
  you're taking yourself too seriously"

i constantly think of going somewhere else, i try to picture a better place
to live, a place that isn't so damned corrupt or evil. i.. it's so stupid
when i think about it. when you look at it, it's just me wanting to run
away.. it's everyone wanting to run away. when people say "there must be a
better place" or "there must be one place in the world" you know they want
to go there. they're tired of the fight, they just want to go and be free.
i just want to go and be free. i'm such a fool. i may as well be taking
drugs, it seems like i want to escape so damned much. i ought to realize
that this is where i live, and it's not going to get any better unless i do
something about it. and yet, we should always dream because when we stop
picturing a better place, we start accepting what we have, which is shit..
so i suppose i am a fool again. we should dream, we should picture a better
place, but we shouldn't rush off to the 4 corners of the world trying to
find it. our better place is right here, but only after hard work and
commitment. duh. here i am anaylizing myself again.

 "you say you'll break out
  but you never do
  you're just another ant in the hill"

---

holy shit batman!

do you realize how many trees we have wasted with all these letters?
sheesh. we're some really destructive critters.

do you know, do you know? no, you don't know. no one knows. no one but me,
that is. and i'm not telling. nope, no sir-e. i won't spill the beans.

i'm listening to love and rockets.

one of the bad things about this job is the discount. most people, i'm
sure, would see a discount as an advantage, and i did too, at first. but
now i see it as pain in the neck. being i get c/d's for $10 instead of the
$17-$20 mall price, i get this incredible urge to buy more and more and
more and..

i know what kind of hell you go through. really. i get the picture. know
what i'm talking about? of course not. remember how you said it was
annoying when you would call and the phone would be busy? i know the
feeling. you see, i dialed your number last night, and it was busy busy
busy. this was sort of a pisser, because i felt like calling and hearing
all of your little problems, instead of talking about the riots. i am sick
and tired of talking about the riots. it's all i've heard for the past 4
days. needless to say the topic is getting just a wee-bitty-bit stale..

did you see the new "barg's rootbeer" ad? it's something like "take a bite
out of communism." their cans and other rubbish have "free soviet stuff!"
scrawled all over them. i'm sure you're just about as thrilled about this
as i am. it just gets to me when they use the break-up of an entire nation
as an advertising tool. it's sort of like selling life insurance to
on-lookers at a car crash..

want to see something really neat? go snag yourself a copy of "people"
magazine. the one with jodie foster on the cover. the 50 most beautiful
people issue. go get one of them, and look on page 36.. it's a story about
leonard peltier! yay! and what's even more exciting.. on page 37, i think,
there's this picture of lenny and this girl named lisa with black hair.
nothing thrilling about that though, huh? WELL, it is to me, because lisa
used to be my old english teacher. she's the one who got me all ensnarled
in underground press and all that jazz.. and now she's going to marry
lenny. can you imagine that? i can't..

i mean, she told me about a year or so ago that she wrote to leo, and he
was sort of in love with her.. but this was a shock.

wow. i know someone who's almost famous. what a world, what a world, what a
world world world..

i think i'll beat myself over the head with a brick now. excuse me..

---

i saw a sign in a store window today. it said "team up with jesus." we're
living with a cult. it's all right out in the open, but it's still such a
secret to so many.. it's a cult, plain and simple.

so i'm drinking my welch's grape soda and listening to trent reznor chant
that's what i get" over and over and over..

i may be venturing back into the deep deep dark dark deep dark south this
summer. maybe late june or early july. maybe.. maybe.. we're mulling it
over, you see, the family and i..

maybe i'm all messed up.."

yeah, maybe you are.

of course, i will have to come and bother you before i go to the deep deep
dark dark deep dark south (if i go there at all.) i've actually made up my
mind. i'm going to come and see you, soonish-like.

this is the only time i really feel alive.."

shut up, trent.

maybe i'll burn something tonight. maybe that's what i'll do.

i had a 2 hour nap before, i suppose that's why i'm all wound up. almost
10pm, and i'm awake.. and bored out of my mind.

no one at work's seen "a clockwork orange." they asked me what it was
about. they said "well, what's it about?" want to know what i said? i said
"well, it's.. ...it's weird, you have to see it." they said it sounded like
pink floyd: the wall." it's not like anything.. it's like anything else
that i've seen.

they said that i must feel pretty low of myself since i never capitalize
anything. they said that two years ago. what do they know.. what have they
ever known? why am i supposed to have an ego a mile wide? am i supposed to
constantly be patting myself on the back for being such a good boy, for
being such a happy camper, for being such a dazzling conformist? and if i
did have an ego such as the one they thought i should have, they would be
running around calling me a self-centered stuck-up bastard. what gives?

fuck 'em.

meat beat manifesto. goodbye, trent.

now.. you can get down on your knees.. pray shout scream psyche out run for
your life.."

i'm a little cold. that dosen't matter.

my buddy dave forgot who i was. i haven't seen him in a year, but i didn't
think i changed that much.. he didn't recognize me until i came up to him
and said "dave.." he stood there sort of at a loss for words, then realized
who i was. "damn, you changed," said he. i still don't think so.

the cool word to be saying now is "hermdeflurge." get it straight, now. you
don't want to look uncool when you say it. "hermdeflurge." can you say
that? come on, "hermdeflurge." remember that. use it as much as possible.
you'll be the coolest kid on the block, or my name isn't jimmy joe the 2nd.

i would love to play the dead kennedy's at work, but i don't think the
other fruitloops could stomach it.

i'm all out of welch's grape soda.

believe me.. believe me when i tell you.. i saw it with my own eyes.."

and with that, i bid you a hermdeflurgingly good day.

---  it's umm. well it's thursday. i have some amazing news. want to hear?
of course you do.

i am now, deary, one of the top 3% of all americans. yes, i am now a member
of the elite minority of people who, despite all odds, have baffled medical
science. i am now one of:

                      THE FEW, THE PROUD, THE INFECTED.

it seems i have come up "snake-eyes in the genetic crap game" and i have
the amazing abilty to cultivate infections, even after i've been immunized.
do you remember my fever and wild headaches? well, that was just the easy
stuff. tell mom that justin really is sick, sick with a glorious illness
indeed. yes, it's an illness that needs no introduction, an illness by the
name of chickenpox."

i'm sure you're giggling. or laughing. or rolling about on the floor in
wild hysteria. yes, i can tell. i know you have this mental image of me
with pretty little red poka-dots all over me. well, you're right. i have a
whole slew of nice, pinkish-red, only slightly itchy bumps that will,
according to a medical handbook i just so happen to have, turn into "moist
blisters." ahh, what a wonderful artist is nature. i always wondered what
i'd look like with poka-dotted flesh.

well, maybe it's the measels. or maybe, maybe it's even the german measels.
either way, they are all outstanding ilnesses, worthy of praise and worship
by all human beings, animals, and perhaps even plant life.

hohum. now i don't know what to write.

so. it's 5 minutes 'till 1pm, i have to be at the doc's around 2ish..
atleast he won't be grabbing at the family jewels today. well, atleast i
hope he won't be. he may get some sort of thrill out of it, but it just
dosen't do it for me, thank you very much.

lipkowitz. what a name.

i knew something was wrong when i had this dream about my boss (jeff)
pissing in the corner..

the spots develop pretty quickly. in a day and a half, they've spread just
about everywhere. i think perhaps i'll just sit and look at my chest for a
couple of hours, watch a few of nature's little masterpieces form.

have YOU had any of these darling diseases? if not, please tell me. i will
gladly (and i mean GLADLY) sneeze, cough, wheeze, gag, and anything else
that i can think of into a ziplock bag. then, all you have to do is turn
the bag inside out and rub it all over your body. i'm sure the germs in the
bag would be more than happy to turn you into a piece of artwork too.

maybe i'll go read the paper or something.

---

still the 26th. wild day.

about 3 or 4 hours ago it was raining.. i was bored, and well, you know my
position with the rain by now. i went out, i walked, it was pouring. i
walked out into the woods, walked and walked.. walked until all i could see
was trees and grass and pale grey sky. i didn't want to see anything that
was made my human beings. i walked and walked, and then i found myself a
nice oak tree. i curled up underneath it, leaned up against the trunk.. i
sat there in the rain for about 45 minutes. after a while the birds got
used to me, they started flying around near by. once i looked up and there
was this bird not more than 4 feet away.. i suppose this is nothing when
compared to pigeons and whatnot in the city.. but the difference was that
this was a totally wild bird, not a pigeon.. it just sat there on a branch
above me, chirping and looking around. i could have reached out and touched
it, it was so close. well, anyway. i just sat there and thought about this
and that.. i almost fell asleep there, it was so peaceful. just sitting
there.. rain falling.. falling.. hitting me on the head, on the back..
falling.. falling.. drops all over me..

i'm too weird today. don't listen, eh? don't pay attention to me.

"more time put aside
 sorry, i'm fucked up inside"

i have a lot to do, but i don't want to do it. this leaves me with nothing
to do. i don't know how that works, but somehow it does.

someone thinks i should write a book. i think i should go have a nap. just
what the world needs, more visions from the mind of a lunatic. i think i'll
spare the mass of population for now.

phone ringing. it's an asshole. it's that guy in new york. adam, that's his
name. he's an idiot. i wish he would go away. i wish he would go away, far
far away into the depths of the earth. assholes are everywhere. assholes
consume the world. i have to hang up the phone.

--

end of file, almost.

that wasn't too bad, was it? you now know me better than most people know
me. on't you feel honored? well, of course you do. and rightly so.

fuck you all.

                    hairy leech

*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*                    Phoenix Modernz Inc. :908/830-TANJ                   *-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*             Modern Textfiles Inc. The Matrix BBS:908/905-6691           *-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
*-*            The Lawless Society Inc. CyberChat BBS:908/506-7637          *-*
*-*                   -also- Terrapin Biscuit Circuit:908/506-6651          *-*
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
^Z

