
______________________________________________________________________________
---------------------------- I Bleed for This? -------------------------------
------03.09.94-----------------------------------------------------#001-------

                                Fuck You #1
                       by Jason Farnon and Snarfblat

     
     Cool, you're reading our file.  Now you must die.  _I Bleed for This?_
is a Quality Product put out by two pathetic fucks from somewhere near
Boston.  It is not remotely cool in any way.  It's just something we have to
do, a way to pass the time until we die.  We wish our lives could be more
like a Mentos commercial, but in reality our lives are so dull we could be
extras in a Morrissey video (except that we hate Morrissey).
     
     We're bored a lot.  This is because we have absolutely nothing to gain
from the mainstream of most peoples' fucking lives.  Instead of sitting
around and complaining, we thought we'd record our thoughts and see if anyone
can relate.  Chances are, someone out there will know what we're talking
about.  Or maybe we just suck.

     Rules for Joining: You can't fucking join.  If you have a text file to
release and you think it's so damn cool that everyone will want to read it,
upload it to a local BBS or post it to our newsgroup or recite it at your
weekly church meeting.  What we're saying is, there are much better ways of
getting yourself heard than by joining IBFT.  If you want prestige, join the
cDc.  If you want girlies, don't ask us for help.  You think we'd be doing
this if we had a life?  Two unwashed losers hunched over a stolen laptop in
Dunkin Donuts at 4 A.M. is *not* something you want to be a part of. 
   
     Who we are: IBFT is Snarfblat and Jason Farnon.  Snarf is 19, on leave
from college because he hated it.  His hobbies include sleeping, eating and
being pathetic.
    
     Farnon is 17, but he might as well be 80.  His age is irrelevant,
because he will always suck.  He doesn't go to High School.  Instead he
harasses people on irc from a remote location in hopes of feeling better
about himself.  He aspires to be arrested so people will think he is cool.

     IBFT was started by Snarfblat's and Farnon's cats, Clawdia and Kiesa,
respectively.  Although they sit on their asses all day (they have been
fixed) and only move to defecate and ingest more material to defecate, even
they were appalled by our sorry selves.  So they carded us computers, warez,
(QEdit registered) and told us to start a zine.  All the money in the world
could not buy us a life, so we have taken a break from sitting home,
twitching and quoting Nine Inch Nails.

     In addition to their e-mail addresses and mailing list, you can mail
real stuff to Kiesa and Clawdia at their P.O. Box:

                          I Bleed For This?
                          Box 1511
                          Cambridge, MA 02238-1511


==============================================================================
IBFT is:  Farnon's cat - kiesa%tacobel@merk.com     Home Board:  (508)371-9849
          Snarf's cat  - clawdia%tacobel@merk.com   Pulsating Temple of Stan

ftp:141.214.4.135:/docs/ibft     ---><---     gopher:ftp.etext.org:/Zines/IBFT
               mailing list:  bleed-request@unix.amherst.edu
==============================================================================

