
_____________________________________________________________________________
---------------------------- I Bleed for This? ------------------------------
------11.26.94-----------------------------------------------------#037------

                                Vicky's Lust
                          Appreciated by Snarfblat

from gadlinsb@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu


One day Jaime was cleaning Small Wonder when she grabbed his penis.  She
started to suck on it and Jaime liked it.  Then it shocked him because she's a
robot and she makes electricity so his penis began to fry.  Then Small Wonder
bit it off first just the tip then the whole thing and she chewed up on his
penis until it was crunchy and mushy in her mouth.  Then she forced Jaime to
open his mouth and she spit it all down his throat and shocked him more. 
Jaime was too shocked to scream.  Then Reggie came in and he said "Oh no Jaime
waht has happened" and Jaime said "Small Wonder ate my penis but first she
shocked it."  Then Reggie said "well that's bad but she can't shock mine cuz
it's bigger and fat" And Small Wonder said "yes I can I am a robot" and Reggie
said "Oh yeah?  Try it then Small Wonder" And she did and she fried it and bit
it and it wasn't even very fat and then she ate it up and made him swallow it
and he cried and then he died because he was very very sad and then so did
Jaime but he wasn't very sad, just he died from blood loss.  Then Mom and
Daddy came home and Daddy saw what had happened through the window the whole
time so he was mad at small wonder so he took her little red dress and lit it
on fire, and then while she was burning he did her up her robot ass and then
small wonder burned out from his cum short circuiting her.  Then Mommy and
Daddy did some sado-masochism stuff and he shoved a curling iron up inside
Mommy and sealed her shut accidentally.  Then he killed her cuz that was bad
and then he killed himself by taking small wonder and making her drippy
melting skin go down his throat and hurt him badly.

==============================================================================
            IBFT: If we hate you, you don't deserve to know why.

                                Information:
                           bleed@unix.amherst.edu
       ftp.etext.org:/pub/Zines/IBFT  The Eleventh Hour (617)696-3146
==============================================================================

