
_____________________________________________________________________________
---------------------------- I Bleed for This? ------------------------------
------04.06.94-----------------------------------------------------#010------
     
                             "Jane's Addiction"
                 Appreciated by Snarfblat and Jason Farnon

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Article I

     Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or
of the press; or the right of the people to peaceably assemble, and to
petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To the Mosquitoes,

     We have more influence over your children than you do, but we love your
children.  Most of you love them too, very much.  You want what's best for
them.  Consider them when planning the future.  Right?  Oh, mother, father,
your blindness to our most blessed gift, NATURE, leaves us with the
overwhelming task of correcting your utter mess.  It also proves that you are
no judge of art, nor of beauty.  We learn from you how to become ideal
adults?  There are subjects that you've passed over.  Or maybe they are too
painful to speak about?

     Nature and art-what could be more breathtaking?

     I used to wish sometimes that I was a black man.  I listened to the way
black men spoke when they spoke about freedom, justice and human rights.  And
in the way they spoke, I was sure they were speaking the truth.  At the same
time there was a faint buzz spreading to all of us the suggestion that the
black man was not to be treated equally.  For this I envied the black man
because it gave him a passion for his living and a cause to die for.

     Would you ever have imagined there would be children swinging in
polluted playgrounds?

     Do you have children?  Do you see yourself in them yet?  Do they do
whatever you tell them to, or do they question authority?  Do you take the
time to explain things to them, or do you blame the rest of the world for
their mistakes?

     I used to wish sometimes that I was a woman.  A woman is the most
attractive creature nature has to offer a man.  Why then is it such a shame
to see her unclothed?  I feel more shame as a man watching a quick-mart being
built.  How complementary a woman is to a man!  Their giving of love is
fearless.  Nature did right in tying the infant to the female.  Yet they also
carry a sense of sadness.  Quite like a premonition of danger they hide but
can't shake from their minds.  I understand why they want to protect their
children, but for their own good, let me point out though you may have to
explain subjects to your children that you perceive as wrong, it is better to
have the freedom to explain it in your own words than be silenced under a
government that has the power to squash anyone who opposes their views.  It
may one day evolve to be your child that stands as opposition.  Who opposes
the faint buzz that suggests to all of us that women are beneath men.  Women
have cause to live and reasons to die with dignity.  This was not always the
case.

     Try to restrict our freedoms and we will fight even harder to preserve
them.

     Mothers and fathers, grandmothers and fathers, great-grandmothers and
fathers, great-great-grandmothers and fathers, you are responsible for more
destruction done to this planet in the last one hundred years than in all of
mankind's history combined.  You've invented weapons capable of destroying
every form of wild animal and vegetation.  I am not sure what condition the
world we are inheriting is really in.  I just have a fear of smokestacks, and
I don't trust the men who feed their flames.

     The paper these words on also contains the music of Jane's Addiction.
The music is original, the cover is not.  The original cover is as colorful
as the music.  It is a daydream of the music, made tangible.  It will take
effort to get, it is being sold, but we are having difficulties.  There is an
invisible force, the same one you have heard faintly buzzing all your life.
This time it buzzes much louder.  I myself have felt it's pain.  When I
looked down at the spot where it hurt, I saw a very small mosquito.  A bug so
old, it was known to Confucius as the "intellectual mosquito." He sucks off
of you and he sucks off of me.

     Sometimes to realize you were well someone must come along and hurt you.

     I have grown to become proud of myself.  I have aligned with all those
who have been stung by suppression.  As heirs to this planet, we must
maintain, honor and enjoy the gift of freedom.  A cause to validate
everyone's life?  Indeed.

     The world looks to America because we are the beautiful.

==============================================================================
IBFT is:  Farnon's cat - kiesa%tacobel@merk.com     Home Board:  (508)371-9849
          Snarf's cat  - clawdia%tacobel@merk.com   Pulsating Temple of Stan

ftp:141.214.4.135:/docs/ibft     ---><---     gopher:ftp.etext.org:/Zines/IBFT
               mailing list:  bleed-request@unix.amherst.edu
==============================================================================

