
(>-------------------------------------------------------------------------<)
The LOD Technical Journal: File #1 of 12
Volume 1, Issue 5  Released:  June 18, 1993.



                           LOD TECHNICAL JOURNAL
                           ---------------------


          
           The Legion of Doom will long be remembered in the computer       
           underground as an innovative and pioneering force, that 
           consistently raised the collective level of knowledge and
           provided many answers to questions ranging from the workings     
           of the telephone system to the structure of computer operating   
           systems. 
            

     5. At all times relevant herein, the Legion of Doom (LOD) was a closely 
     knit group of computer hackers involved in:

          a.   Disrupting telecommunications by entering
               computerized telephone switches and changing the
               routing on the circuits of the computerized
               switches.
          b.   Stealing proprietary computer source code and
               information from companies and individuals that
               owned the code and information.
          c.   Stealing and modifying credit information on
               individuals maintained in credit bureau computers.
          d.   Fraudulently obtaining money and property from
               companies by altering the computerized information
               used by the companies.
          e.   Disseminating information with respect to their
               methods of attacking computers to other computer
               hackers in an effort to avoid the focus of law
               enforcement agencies and telecommunication security
               experts.
          - Indictment laid down by a US District Court     

            
            It wasn't the crimes they were committing, but the danger, 
            the potential hazard, the sheer technical power LoD had         
            accumulated, that had made the situation untenable.
          - Bruce Sterling in The Hacker Crackdown
                
         
Its been over THREE whole years since we last put out a TJ! May, 20th 1990 to 
be exact.  

The LOD TJ, will publish any acceptable and original articles, technical
explanations, schematics or other files that deal with computer
security/insecurity, telecommunications, data networks, physical security,
credit, law enforcement, privacy, cryptology, restricted information,
editorial commentary and other topics. To submit an article for publication
simply send it to us. Freelance writers are always sought after to provide
original articles for the TJ. Bigger is better as far as this Journal goes.
The more information, the more instruction and the more people can benefit
from it. 

The LOD also seeks qualified members to fill its ranks. You must possess a
strong desire to both learn and teach. Those with an eleeet attitude need not
apply. LOD's former membership was a list of some of the brightest and most
capable individuals in the underground - names like Mark Tabas, The Mentor,
The Prophet and others. Take advantage of your opportunity to join the ranks
of the world's greatest underground group. Apply today. 

What is particularly needed right now is someone in the publishing business
to publish all the TJ's on hard copy and make them available for mass sale. 
Not just another "hacker book company" mind you, but one that will be able to
place the TJ in your common book store. As this will both give us legitimacy
and make it available to the average person and not just those with modems or
net.access. We expect to receive no profit from this so there is an added
bonus to any potential publishers. If you are a publisher or can get us in
contact with one that can undertake this, by all means contact us.

Reach us at:

Internet Email: tdc@zooid.guild.org

Mail: 
LOD
P.O. Box 104
4700 Keele St.
North York, ON
M3J-1P3

Voice: +1-416-609-7017

The Legion of Doom is back to... 

o  Provide free education for the public in data and telecom networks,      
   operating systems and other aspects of technology. Through both our      
   Technical Journal and our new Legion of Doom Technical School.
o  Turn hacking back into its former glory of technical understanding away  
   from its c0de abusing state today. 
o  Publish a high-quality Technical Journal available to all who are        
   interested completely free of charge. 
o  Give fellow hackers an organized group of similar minded individuals to  
   communicate and learn with.   

Please be advised that we are still getting "back on our feet". So look for
much better journals and other things to come from us in the future. It will
take at least a couple years to get the Legion back to its former glory so
don't expect things to happen instantly. Hopefully these journals can come
out every couple of months, instead of our previous year odd gaps between
releases. But as finding and writing suitable articles is very difficult it
may be sometime before the next issue comes out. If this does happen, don't
assume we're dead. More journals will come out, it is only a question of
when.

For one reason or another the LOD has always been surrounded by an atmosphere
of mis-information, confusion and downright lies. Everyone has heard the
expression "don't believe everything you hear". This is especially true with
anything concerning the LOD. As a general rule if you didn't hear it in this
TJ, chances are its untrue or incorrect.     

This TJ may be freely distributed on either hard or soft copy forms as long
as it has not been altered.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  
                       TABLE OF CONTENTS:

Name of article or file                                Author            Size
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
01 Introduction to the LOD Technical Journal           Staff             03K 
   and Table Of Contents for Volume 1, Issue 5

02 The Legion of Doom Technical School:                Staff             08K 
   1993-1994 Program Calendar
   
03 Index to the LOD Technical Journals:                Staff             06K
   Issues 1-5

04 Communications Technology                           Unequal Access    24K

05 DMS-100 Maintenance                                 Unequal Access    14K 
             
06 Operator Service Position System (OSPS)             The Enforcer      12K

07 Testing Operations Provisioning Administration      Mystik Freak      09K
   System (TOPAS)

08 International Switching Systems                     Mystik Freak      30K

09 Hacking GANDALF XMUXs                               Deicide           12K

10 TEMPEST Technology                                  Grady Ward        13K

11 Presidential Security                               Argon             14K

12 Network News & Notes                                Staff             63K
       
Total: 12 files  208K

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hope you find this Journal to be of some use to you it took a good deal of
time to put together.  Remember that the mind is like a parachute.  It only
works when open.  Stand back, open your mind and get ready for an influx! 
(>-------------------------------------------------------------------------<)
