=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                         Shut Up Gen X Weenie
                         --------------------

     Jeez.  I can't beleive some of the griping and bitching I hear on a 
day to day basis.  "I don't like my job, I don't like my school, I don't
know what I'm going to do with my life after college etc..."  I've noticed  
that many many people spend more time complaining about how bad life is 
than trying to change the things (normally little things) that A.)Annoy them
or B.)Make them think life is sooooo bleak and horrible.

     Not that I'm perfect mind you.  I do bitch and moan from time to time, 
but I realize that it isn't the grim "No Future" world that the Gen-Xers and
their ilk paint in emotional shades of grey.

     I'd also like to say that this isn't all aimed at Generation X aged 
people (Hell, I'm one off them I think), but is instead aimed at people in
general.  My age group gets a lot of negative (?) press.  We have no drive,
or ambition.  Our parents made a difference with their sit ins and marches
etc etc ad nauseum...  We watch TV rather than read books and our idea of 
knowledge of world affairs can be turned into the CNN soundbites we see on
our 234525 inch TV (we're materialistic too!@#) screens rather than the 
in-depth coverage a paper provides.  Blah.  With all that press, why should
I have to dog us too?  An intrinsicly lazy person such as myself need not
waste the effort.  Heh.

     Anyhow, as I sit here with a beer in hand and an attitude in head I 
can't help but be annoyed at all these negative things that I read from
people.  Ann Landers, columns, news and <gasp> even TV shows.  My God,
even fictional characters sit about and whine on and on about the lot life
has dealt them.  What the FUCK?  What the hell do you have to put up with 
that is so evil?  There are millions of people all over the world who would
kill (and they do) to live the life I live every day.  I went out to the 
main PX (Sorry kids, I'm in the army) yesterday and purchased a TV, a holy
trinity machine (coffee, espresso, cappuccino maker) and some Earthworm 
Jim(tm) videos to watch as I sat and the world moved on.  My package of 
coffee cost more than the Mexican minimum wage for a weeks work.  What do
I have to complain about?  Let's look, shall we?

     Jobs.  No one likes their job.  Hell, I hate mine and I can't call in
sick like most people can.  I got out of High School and joined the Army for 
a period of three years.  I went from being an intellectual person who could
discourse on world events, history and other subjects with ease to an E-1 
(private).  I was the lowest scum on the face of the planet.  I had to 
bow and scrape to people who think that Bach is another word for reverse.
I'm a tanker, so I have to go out and do some of the stupidest things on the
planet to make sure that my M1A1 will move, shoot and communicate like it is 
supposed to do.  This is not hard work, but since I have a fairly good mind
and it comes easily to me I have to put up with more shit since my gunner
wants me to supervise my idiot loader.  On a daily basis I have to monitor
this man who is the same rank as me and 3 years older, and on a daily basis
I get yelled at because he fails to meet the standards.  Come on, how hard
is it to spit shine a boot and press a uniform?  Not hard.  Trust me.  You
think you have a bad job?  I can't quit, call in sick, not show up or any of
the things that civilian workers take for granted plus all the military shit
365 days a year.  But even with all this, I can't complain.  The army pays
me twice a month, gives me a place to live and shipped me over to Germany
for two years.  

     So what else bothers you?  People in general?  Fine.  I've already 
spoken to you about my loader.  Now, take someone that stupid and multiply
him about 200 times.  That is what I put up with.  I get ordered around all
day by people whose GT score is almost always lower than mine.  I can't
even get away from them after work because I live with them.  Consider how
you'd feel if your boss lived two doors from you and came over every night
to make sure you were doing what you were supposed to be doing.  Or perhaps
you could never call one of your best friends by name at work.  Or what if
you lived 9000 miles from home in a country where many people were openly 
hostile to you because you've occupied their land for 50 years.  Hell, I 
had to sneak around with a girlfriend of mine because her parents didn't like
Americans at all.  All that not to mention the other countries around here 
that aren't exactly lovey about Americans.

     You don't make enough money?  Please.  I make slightly over 40 cents an
hour.  Roughly 12,000 a year (less actually) and I'm on duty 24 hours a day
not to mention the field time which is a month straight twice a year for 
gunnery, another two months for Manuever training (ever tried to live off a 
tank for 15 days at a time?  This is not comfort) plus all the little 
side field problems that I keep getting "volunteered" for.  Despite the fact
that I damn near qualify for food stamps I've learned that if you use common
sense and make out a budget you shouuld have no money problems.  Save, spend
wisely and use your head.  I know guys here who are bumming cash etc two days
after payday with nothing to show for the money they spend.  I find that 
money problems are self induced because people always need that shiny new
toy or whatnot.  People won't save a hundred dollars because they need to 
have things in their room with a name that other people will recognize.
Pure silliness.

     How bout, you don't like where you live?  Once again, give me the 
proverbial break.  I share a room with one other guy.  Not an apartment, but
a ROOM.  My half is 10X10 feet maybe.  The building is part of a Pre WW2
hospital complex.  I can walk out my door and see old bunkers from the time
when the Nazis stayed here.  I share a shower with the whole floor.  One room
with 5 nozzles sticking out of the wall.  My living quarters can be inspected
at any time during the work day if my First SGT gets a wild hair and I have 
to keep them at a certain level of GI neatness.  Blah on that.  Plus there
is always having to clean the common areas.  Hall, shower room, kitchen etc.
I will never complain about an apartment being too small.  Not only that,
I currently have friends in Bosnia who've spent the last several months in 
tents.  Don't complain kiddos.

     Finally, we have my favorite.  "I just have no future.  The last 
generation just fucked my world up"  Please.  This is America (well, sort
of for me).  No matter what people say, it is and probably always will be 
the land of opportunity.  Our idea of a poverty level is any third world
nations idea of wonderful.  I'd bet any family out there can afford to
go out to McDonalds Once in a while (not that this is a good thing, but that
is another file).  With a minimum of drive you can make a good life for 
yourself.  I hate to sound like some conservative Republican windbag, but 
quite frankly jobs abound.  The main problem is that lots of people will not
"lower" themselves to what is out there.  Look in the paper sometime...  
There is always a McJob to be had.  Working at Pizza Hut may not be on par 
with slaying dragons, but it will put a roof over your head and a meal on
your table.  Education is fairly cheap here.  If your job won't pay for
college I will bet that you can get a grant or a loan or a scholarship if 
you stuck out high school or not.  Jeezus.  I know of one institution that
will not only (maybe) train you in a real world skill, but will pay for
college too!  Yes, the Army!  Be all you can be!  Just don't pick a combat
arms branch.  Get air traffic controller or commo or something.  I'm a damn
good tanker, but that is useless out there in TV land..

     I guess what I am trying to say is...  Shut the Fuck UP.  You really 
don't have a problem.  Get a job.  Stick with it.  Save some dough.  Invest
in a short term high risk mutual fund.  Go out and enjoy the fact that you 
live in a weird country, but one of the greatest around.  And if you can't
see that, join the army for three years.  I promise you that you will love
the world after you ETS.

-fastjack

18 months short

PS - This is also my rebuttal to F.U.C.K. File #59 which I wrote when I was
still in school and going through the whole "No Future" kick.  Looking back,
I should have been smacked.  Anyone with a mind has a whole world to conquer.
Trust me.  Knowledge is power, but without some kind of drive to make use
of that power it isn't shit.

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, etc etc...   =
= Internet : jericho@dimensional.com                 (Mail is welcomed)   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=                  gote land            +27.31.441115                     =
=                  Arrested Development +31.77.3547477                    =
=                  Global Chaos         +61.2.681.2837                    =
= Chemical Persuasion  203.324.0894    Undrgrnd Indust/Inc. 207.490.2158  =
= Damnation            212.861.0580    Damnation -Toll Free 888.803.8490  =
= Hacker's Haven       303.516.9969    Unearthly Shadows    303.683.1443  =
= E.L.F.        (NUP)  314.272.3426    Misery               318.625.4532  =
= Dungeon Sys. Inc.    410.263.2258    Psykodelik Images    407.834.4576  =
= Paradise Lost        414.476.3181    Black SunShine       513.891.3465  =
= underworld_1995.com  514.683.1894    Digital Fallout      516.378.6640  =
= PSYCHOSiS            613.836.7211    Bad Trip             615.870.8805  =
= Plan 9               716.881.3663    suicidal chaos       718.592.1083  =
= Damaged              801.944.7353    The Death Star Bar   805.872.3151  =
= Purple Hell          806.791.0747    BloodNet             901.872.8615  =
= Atrocity Exhibition  905.796.3385    Phoenix Modernz      908.830.8265  =
= The Keg              914.234.9674    that stupid place    215.985.0462  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Files through Anon FTP  FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM/users/jericho/FUCK          =
=                         FTP.PRISM.NET/pub/users/mercuri/zines/fuck      =
=                         FTP.WINTERNET.COM/users/craigb/fuck             =
=                         FTP.GIGA.OR.AT/pub/hackers/zines/FUCK           =
=                         ETEXT.ARCHIVE.UMICH.EDU - /pub/Zines/FUCK       =
=                         FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM - /users/rage/zines/fuck    =
= Files through WWW: http://www.dimensional.com/~jericho                  =
=                    http://www.prism.net/zineworld/fuck/                 =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=       (c) Copyright. All files copyright by the original author         =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

