=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=   F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                                Drugs
                                -----

        I will admit firstoff, that I am not the first and foremost
authority on drugs and their usage, but I am writing this as a warning and
a story for others to read for your enjoyment, fear, laughter, whatever.  As
a small disclaimer for those less intelligent than the others, don't try
many of these things at home.
        First off, I am 16.  I have been 16 for a few months now, and will
continue for a few more months.  So I guess I'm about 16 1/2.  I quit doing
drugs about 2 years ago, and I've been getting better ever since.  It was
a very confusing and difficult time in my life, and it is not something that
I would hope to repeat.  I wouldn't curse it on anyone I know, enemy OR
friend.  It was a dark chapter in my life.  A very dark one.  I was into
many many drugs, and combined them in an assortment of ways.  Pot, cocaine,
heroin, alcohol, LSD, shrooms, you name it, I probably tried it once or
twice.  Not only was I high all the time, but I always felt bad after I
stopped.  I always had to have some more as soon as I came off my high.  It
was horrible.  But I kept doing it for many reasons.  Peer pressure,
addiction, the effect it had on people when they saw me, etc etc.  The list
can go on and on, but nothing can justify such a violent act such as doing
drugs.  The only problem that I've had with quitting drugs, is the starting
of cigarettes to give my hands something to do rather than masturbating,
since that is not really socially acceptable anywhere, which is even less
than smoking. :)  In any case, let me get back to my point.  If you've
already started drugs, quit.  Immediatly.  If you do not heed my warning,
perhaps I have to go into a little more detail about a particular incident
that happened about 2 hours before I quit.  Yes, this was the determining
factor.

        I woke up that morning the same as every morning, with a great
hangover that was caused by the alchohol I had the night before.  I think
it was vodka...  I went to school, same as always, went to pick up a few
friends while on my bike so that we could go together to school.  We all
got together and rode on to school.
        School was relatively normal, rather boring to say the least.  We
were discussing the upcoming frog disection, I believe, and I was getting
restless.  I stayed there, for some reason, until school was out.  I was not
into ditching, and I have no idea why not. Anyway, I never left school with
the same people I came to school with.  This time I left with my "friend"
named, we'll say, Sean.  Sean and I had known each other only 2 years, but
we both had a profound interest in drugs.  This particular day, he happened
to have a bit of cocaine laced pot.  Quite intriguing, to say the least.  I
really wanted to try it.  So I did.  A whole lot of it.  I was completely
fucked up.  I didn't stop there, however, and this is where I realize what
drugs had done to me -- I know when to quit.  Drugs do not.  After 20
minutes of being bored with the pot, I brought out some more vodka I had
leftover from the day before.  Aaahh, sweet vodka.  I took a few swigs of it
and, after a few minutes, passed out.
        I woke up in a hospital.  I had no idea how I got there, but I felt
like shit.  I asked the nurse in the room how I had gotten there, and she
said that I had been left there by an unidentified person.  So that meant I
had been left at a hospital while I was overdosing by Sean, but he didn't
have the respect to stay and see how I was.  I never spoke to him again.
        My parents were called, and they came immediatly, since they had
become worried now.  Mind you, I left school at about 3:00pm and it was now
about 8:00.  The moment that my mother saw me, she cried and left. My father
left as well, probably to comfort her.  I couldn't move, I was seeing trails
everywhere, I was in bad shape.  I won't go into the rest of the pain I was
feeling, nor will I go into the rest of the night or even my life.  All that
I will say is that from that instant, when I saw my mother crying, I decided
to quit drugs immediatly.  Since then, I haven't touched any.  Since then,
I have become closer to my parents than any other child I've ever heard of.
Since then, I've become a better person.  Grades have improved.  Social
skills have improved.  Attention span has improved.  Basically, after almost
killing myself, I was able to bring myself out and make myself into a person.
If you do drugs, heed this warning.  I wouldn't want to curse that sort of
action any ANYONE, even my worst enemy.


-=- Murcurochrome -=-

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, etc etc...   =
= Internet : jericho@dimensional.com                 (Mail is welcomed)   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=                  gote land            +27.31.441115                     =
=                  Arrested Development +31.77.3547477                    =
=                  Global Chaos         +61.2.681.2837                    =
= Chemical Persuasion  203.324.0894    Undrgrnd Indust/Inc. 207.490.2158  =
= Damnation            212.861.0580    that stupid place    215.985.0462  =
= Hacker's Haven       303.516.9969    PheedbacK            ----down----  =
= E.L.F.        (NUP)  314.272.3426    Misery               318.625.4532  =
= Dungeon Sys. Inc.    410.263.2258    Psykodelik Images    407.834.4576  =
= Paradise Lost        414.476.3181    Black SunShine       513.891.3465  =
= underworld_1995.com  514.683.1894    Digital Fallout      516.378.6640  =
= PSYCHOSiS            613.836.7211    Bad Trip             615.870.8805  =
= Plan 9               716.881.3663    suicidal chaos       718.592.1083  =
= Damaged              801.944.7353    The Death Star Bar   805.872.3151  =
= Purple Hell          806.791.0747    Atrocity Exhibition  905.796.3385  =
= Phoenix Modernz      908.830.8265    The Keg              914.234.9674  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Files through Anon FTP  FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM/users/jericho/FUCK          =
=                         FTP.PRISM.NET/pub/users/mercuri/zines/fuck      =
=                         FTP.WINTERNET.COM/users/craigb/fuck             =
=                         FTP.GIGA.OR.AT/pub/hackers/zines/FUCK           =
=                         ETEXT.ARCHIVE.UMICH.EDU - /pub/Zines/FUCK       =
=                         FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM - /users/rage/zines/fuck    =
= Files through WWW: http://www.dimensional.com/~jericho                  =
=                    http://www.prism.net/zineworld/fuck/                 =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



