
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
               
                                Overkill
                                --------

     Holy shit, I'm sick of this fucking overkill that I see so often.  
It's fucking annoying!

     A few days ago, I went around my school asking how long each person 
approximatly spends on his/her hair.  The results are astounding.  Some 
people (most of the "smarter" people) spend 1-5 minutes on their hair.  
Others spend 10-15 minutes.  The most amazing time amount is 2-3 hours.  
And many people said that!!!  I can't talk on the phone that long, let 
alone do that much time on my hair!!  It's amazing to see what they come 
up with, but still, there is no reason to do that.  Hair seems to be a big 
issue with teen agers in this day and age (and sometimes parents who also 
spend equal amounts of time on it).  My point:  People spend too much time 
trying to please people that they quite possibly may never see again in 
their entire lives, let alone ask what they think about their hair.  It's 
pathetic to see people on welfare spending $50-$60 on hair products, and 
not be able to stay off the crack.  Shit, I wish I could take a lighter 
near all the people that spend too much time on their hair...  That would 
be a sight to see.

     However, overkill is not just limited to the real world.  Take the 
scene.  There is overkill lurking around every corner of the scene.  Take 
some warez boards.  They carry warez, great, but there are people out there 
who will go to no end to get the zero-day.  And that is fucking pathetic.  
I don't mind people leeching from me to an extent, but when it escalates 
to 20-30 megs downloaded every call, I must put my foot down.  Loki 
describes in The Guide to BBSing that if a sysop runs a warez board with 
no ratios (Which I do not have) then he/she must expect to have leechers 
call and leech.  I must dissagree.  If you want a game that bad, shit, 
buy it.

     One of the major contributing agents to overkill is the media. Take 
the O.J. Simpson trials.  As soon as the media dogs sunk their teeth into 
that, they chewed and chewed and have been chewing ever since the whole 
thing started.  Now, there are shows that brag about having the most up-
to-date info on the case.  That's great.  I just want to hear more and 
more about someone elses life.  "Instead of making my TV bigger, they 
should just make it into a peephole!" is a quote that comes to mind when 
discussing the media.  We now have sitcoms who take that subject and will 
if not base, discuss the O.J. Simpson case.  There is no other topic in 
the world that has been more discussed.  I don't know about you, but I 
am fucking tired of it. It's stupid to keep hearing about other people.  
Try talking about something that affects me directly.  Sure, he was a 
great football player in his time, but that is no reason to make 20 
fucking books on his carreer as a convict. Shit.  I'm sick of this shit.

     One other thing that is pathetic to hear about is these damned 
abortion fuckups that contridict themselves every chance they get.  They 
talk about saving the unborn children, and what do they do to accomplish 
that motive?  They kill the doctors that are giving the abortions.  Now I 
don't know about anyone else personally, but I am all pro-choice.  This is
a womans choice, not a fucking minister's choice.  If the minister ever 
gets pregnant, then he has that right to talk.  That is yet another reason
to get some female priests, but that is another topic all together, and I 
won't go into any more talk than that. How can you kill to save someone 
else that hasn't even been born yet?  Abortion is a touchy subject, yes, 
but I think we need to think twice before we start judging other people by
something that we don't agree with morally.

Fuck all of the overkillers.

Murcurochrome

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, etc etc... =  
= Internet : fuck@corrupt.sekurity.com  -or-  jericho@netcom.com        =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Chemical Persuasion  203.324.0894    Ionic Destruction   215.722.0570 =   
= Wulf's Den           303.699.WULF    E.L.F.       (NUP)  314.272.3426 =   
= Dungeon Sys. Inc.    410.263.2258    Celestial Woodlands 409.764.2843 =   
= Plan 9               716.881.3663    Logikal Nonsence    717.XXX.XXXX =   
= Purple Hell          806.791.0747    Deadly Intoxication 801.553.8644 =
= PuRe EViL  (NUP)     905.XXX.XXXX    The Keg             914.234.9674 =   
= Misery               318.625.4532                                     =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Files through Anonymous FTP: FTP.NETCOM.COM - cd \pub\illusion\fuck   =
=                              CORRUPT.SEKURITY.COM - cd \pub\zine\fuck =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
               


