
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                        THREE CHEERS FOR O.J. SIMPSON!
                        ------------------------------

     O.J. (who no longer needs a last name since he copywrighted his 
initials) has pulled off the ultimate hack of the system.  Or I should say, 
his lawyers have.  Of course his hack is not one of the traditional sort, 
but nonetheless, it was a masterful deception.  Lets review this hack so we 
can all learn from its cunningness.

     Most good hacks revolve around the hacker doing something outside of 
the law.  Ten months ago, O.J. walked to his estranged wifes house, asked 
her and her guest to step outside, and butchered them.  Or should I say 
haxored them?  I personally don't support malicious hacking, and O.J. is a 
lamer for crashing Nicole and Ronald.  And hell, his exploit was lamer than 
the -froot bug, but I guess it got the job done.  Now if this was the extent 
of his hack, O.J. would not even rate as an ANSI kiddie, but the true hack 
came later.

     Like any good hacker, O.J. tried to cover his tracks, but 
unfortunately, he missed most of the logs.  He left footprints all over the 
place and didn't even delete all of his tools.  The fedz traced him from 
Nicole's to his Bronco to his house and nabbed him.  Now O.J. lost his cool 
and almost phucked himself right there and then by putting a gun to his 
head, but the important thing is he didn't talk.  Most hackers lose it and 
spill there guts, but O.J. smartened up and called his lawyer.  Remeber that 
when the fedz are knocking on your door!

     Next came the _real_ hack.  With all the logs and evidence seized it 
looked like a done deal, but O.J. hooked up with the boyz who had the true 
zero-day, Shapiro and company.  These guys faced down the big guns of the 
legal system and used every bug they could think of.  They corrupted the 
time-line, they poisoned the validity of the evidence, they placed doubt on 
accuracy of the logs, and they used every hackers best friend:  Social 
Engineering.

     Social Engineering (S.E. for short) is the act of using jargon to fool 
your target into believing what your saying is true.  O.J.'s attorneys are 
the best in the biz.  No matter how bizarre the exuses and explanations they 
came up with, the jury fell for every word.  They used their expert 
knowledge of legalease to convince the jury not to believe their own eyes. 
Man are they good!  They should right up a t-phile for Phrack on their 
techniques!

     Of course none of their ploys would have amounted to shit if they 
hadn't pulled out there best trick at the end.  They used a bug more feared 
than the Internet Worm, more dreaded than the Whale Virus, more powerful 
than ISS.  They used the Racism attack.  No defense can stand up to it.  It 
hits the system from thousand angles at once and completely corrupts 
everyone's memory.  It reroutes all thinking to /dev/null and core dumps 
reason.

     They were able to take an impossible case and turn it to complete 
victory.  Thats more impressive than hacking root at cert.org.  That was the 
hack of the year.  Of course, it took millions of dollars for O.J. to pay 
for his tiger team, but it got him what he wanted:  Complete victory over 
the system.  Complete victory over justice.

                Way to go O.J.  You hacked America.

-Deadkat

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, etc etc...   =
= Internet : jericho@netcom.com                      (Mail is welcome)    =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Chemical Persuasion  203.324.0894    Celestial Woodlands 214.252.6455   =
= Goat Blowers Anon    215.750.0392    Hacker's Haven      303.343.4053   =
= E.L.F.        (NUP)  314.272.3426    Misery              318.625.4532   =
= Dungeon Sys. Inc.    410.263.2258    Psykodelik Images   407.834.4576   =
= Paradise Lost        414.476.3181    Black SunShine      513.891.3465   =
= Digital Fallout      516.378.6640    PSYCHOSiS           613.836.7211   =
= Bad Trip             615.870.8805         (Your board here!@#!)         =
= Plan 9               716.881.3663    Phallic Paradise    801.944.7353   =
= Purple Hell          806.791.0747    Logikal Nonsence    XXX.XXX.XXXX   =
= PuRe EViL  (NUP)     905.XXX.XXXX    The Keg             914.234.9674   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Files through Anonymous FTP: FTP.NETCOM.COM - /pub/je/jericho/FUCK      =
=                              FTP.FC.NET - /pub/deadkat/misc/FUCK        =
=                              FTP.WINTERNET.COM - /users/craigb/fuck     =
=                              FTP.GIGA.OR.AT - /pub/hackers/zines/FUCK   =
=                              ETEXT.ARCHIVE.UMICH.EDU - /pub/Zines/FUCK  =
=               http://www.ora.com:8080/johnl/e-zine-list/zines/fuck.html =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



