=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=   F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                        Mysteries We Understand
                        -----------------------

The majority of us, understand a lot of mysteries others do not.  That being
the main dividing characteristics between us and them.  However, within us,
there are mysteries only some of us understand and others do not.

Some of those mysteries might be as simple or complicated as how a program
has a certain short cut, what loops are set up, or perhaps it is who someone
really is.  Finding the answers to these mysteries might be as simple as
asking someone, or doing your research.  Then there are the ones that are
much deeper, and ones that only us, as ourselves as individuals can
comprehend and figure out for ourselves.  Those mysteries may include:
what is really important to us, what we will fight for, and what really we
could live without, and then do so.

It is important to understand some mysteries, for us to succeed the way we
have chosen, others it is important that no one else figure out, if we are
to continue.  Yet, there are others that just will seem mysteries until we
are so close to the end of it, that we will then see it in such vividity,
that we know the end is near.

Mysteries are a part of life, we learn from an early age.  Some of the keys
to those mysteries are revealed at an early age, as well.  Such as the truth
behind the Tooth Fairy, Santa Claus, or the Easter Bunny.  Then there are
those that we stumble upon as we grow older ... and the keys to those
mysteries we have lost along the way.

Curiosity is human nature, it is within every human being that they will
find themselves wondering about something or another.  Feeling a compelling
urge to discover, uncover, or divulge a mystery, fact, or find.  For a lot
of us, that same curiosity has gotten involved in the very things we are
currently active and partaking in.  Others of us, it may have caused us
heartbreak, or something in our lives to shatter and fall apart, to never
be the same, again.  Curiosity is not a crime, though some may make it seem
that way.  They forget to stress, the means of indulging that curiosity is
what may get you into trouble, not the curiosity of it.

If it was not for curiosity nothing would have ever been found, nor learned
for the desire to learn and find would not be there.  Imagine a world that
would have gone undiscovered... A place that no one would ever want to know
anything... can you?

Mysteries We Understand, may vary and the conclusion of those things we
have discovered through unlocking those mysteries may turn out to be slightly
different, but nevertheless, they are Mysteries We Understand.  And, then
there are those that are not to be understood until revealed.

- Kamria

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, Submissions  =
= Mail: jericho@dimensional.com                       (Mail is welcomed)  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  To receive new issues through mail, mail jericho@dimensional.com with  =
=   "subscribe fuck". If you do not have FTP access and would like back   =
=    issues, send a list of any missing issues and they will be mailed.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= AnonFTP     FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM/users/jericho/FUCK                      =
=             FTP.SEKURITY.ORG/pub/zines/fucked.up.college.kids           =
=             FTP.GIGA.OR.AT/pub/hackers/zines/FUCK                       =
=             FTP.ETEXT.ORG/pub/Zines/FUCK                                =
= WWW         http://www.dimensional.com/~jericho                         =
=             http://www.reps.net/~krypt/fuck.html                        =
=             http://www.simunye.com/fuck                                 =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=       (c) Copyright. All files copyright by the original author.        =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

