=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=   F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
 
                             A Network Orange
                             ----------------
 
    Take a look at the CDA. Now i'm not going to go on forever about that
mistake, for it has been most likely stamped into the memory of every
single person on the net by now. I want to examine the idea of the CDA, the
restricting of ones rights. Its nothing new to any of us. However, who
would have thought? In the land of the free, the government would try to
repress the unknown. Well anyone with half a brain for a start. That sort
of thing has been going on for eternity. Freedom of speech? Any person who
actually thinks that someone in this country can have complete freedom of
speech, and that it is defined right there on that piece of liberty labeled
the 'Constitution', needs a serious education enhancement. There will
always be the matter of 'national security' which the government will always
try to abuse in an attempt to supress the weak.

    The question now rising in my mind, the one you too might have been
considering, the question that the ACLU, the CIEC, the CDT, and many more
have been considering ever since section V of S.652 had been writen, is
what does the word 'FUCK' have to do with National Security? I suppose,
taken to the extreme, this word might cause a Moral Extremist (such as one
of our fine congress persons) to experience a stroke, resulting in the
death of this person. If this could happen to one congress person, it might
happen to a majority of them. In which case we would lose a large portion
of Morally Conscience Congress Persons, which would cause chaos on the
streets, and in turn an invasion from China. Of course, the above example
will never happen on this time plane, so I can not rationalize how the word
'FUCK', and other indecent material, can be of national security concern,
when obviously it is not. I also do not see how congress can make bills
concerning it. It is not defined in the powers of congress to make laws
which supress the speech of the United States people at the whim of their
magic wands, and in no way can congress ever convince the people of this
country (at least not the ones with working brain fluid) that this power
comes from the 'elastic clause'. So what our congress did was undebatably
unconstitutional. Now, the rest of the bill (The Telecommunications Bill)
is what we consider the regulation of interstate commerce, which is
perfectly acceptable.
 
    Consider at this moment, that the congress was able to pass this bill
in less than 24 hours, and that the President of the United States of
America was able to sign this bill into law (possibly because he knew that
with about 95% of Congress voting for this bill, they had the power to
override his veto if he did in fact veto the bill. Or he could have just
been after the votes for the upcoming presidential election) the following
week. Which only a few days later the President admitted that parts of the
bill are unconstitutional (posibly because the whitehouse was flooded with
email?) and that it will not be enforced. It seems our fair President
momentarily forgot that three and a half years ago he rose his right hand
to the United States people and said "I do solemnly swear that I will
faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will
to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of
the United States." (Article II, Section I of the Constitution of the
United States) The President of the United States of America admits to
knowingly signing an unconstitutional bill into law. The way I see, the
President and anyone in Congress who voted for the bill should be fired for
supporting an unconstitutional bill. Since this sort of thing is completely
unpractical the bill should have been immediately revoked. I would now like
to sidetrack from this article to say that Mr. Clinton, for his actions
stated above, will NOT be getting my vote in this up coming election
(neither will my representative or either of my senators).
 
    Lets examine the possibility that the Government thought for just a
second that they could in fact enforce this law. In order to complete such
a diesaesed quest they would have to create a side-agency of the FCC, let
us call this agency the IDC (Internet Decency Commission) or something of
the sort. The first thing they might want to do is setup mail routers that
all email must be mailed through. If the government could actually
accomplish such a goal, within a year, and with only five budget increases,
I would donate 90% of my income for the rest of my life to them. This
brings me to the only upside of the CDA. It does say in the law that one
can only be fined and sentenced if they _knowingly_ send indecent material
to a _minor_. So, instead of the mail routers, they would have to setup
something along the lines of wiretapping (uni-user sniffer logs). If a
mother happens to find out that her 12 year old daughter is hot chatting
and trading smut with a 32 year old man in another state, she would inform
the IDC, beat her child, sell her computer, beat her child, and go on a
looser talk show about how "My child was abused on the information
superhighway and I won't stand for it!" which would present me with a great
opportunity for using all that plutonium I have sitting in my closet. The
IDC would then begin monitoring all email sent to and from the little girls
account, the slightly less than intelligent man from another state, and
everyone else on those users domains just for the hell of it. As soon as
indecent material is sent from the man to the girl (who will not receive
the mail because her mother chained her to the wall and stuck a chastity
belt on her) the IDC can bust him. Which would probably include the SS
bashing into the mans house with all sorts of neat weapons I wouldn't mind
owning, then taking anything from the house that they wouldn't mind owning,
and of course, anything related to the case. This man would then be fined
the infamous $250,000 and sent to jail for a couple years. This sort of
thing of course is possible, but very improbable.
 
    Think of all the stuff that would have to go into creating the IDC.
They would have to get a big check, or put it on the black budget (like the
NSA, my heros). After that they would have to buy a big piece of land (like
the CIA, my idols). Then they would have to setup a huge office building
that would cost a lot of money to build (like the Puzzle Palace). Then buy
a whole bunch of neat computers (Suns, SGIs and Crays, oh my). Get a
domain registry (IDC.GOV). Make secret deals with foreign countries, MIBs,
Aliens, create some UFOs, design some new weapons, and assassinate the
president (so they don't feel left out). I am sure you can think of
thousands of other things that would have to be done. This sort of money
spending would not look good when all the politicians are screaming for a
balanced budget. And it would just present an agency that would abuse its
powers like all the rest of them. All in all, it is pretty much a guarantee
that the Government cannot do anything about indecent material on the net,
short of kicking everyone off of it. They could try that, rename it back to
ARPAnet and then tell everyone to start their own world wide network if
they want one so bad. Maybe then service providers would pour out the
amount of money needed into running such a network, instead of leeching off
of what little bandwith is actually present (<cough cough> AOL <cough
cough> Netcom <cough cough> The Well <cough cough>).
 
    Overall the CDA is just a failed attempt at big-brotherism. Part of the
Telecommunications Law (the CDA) has been found unconstitutional in a
Philadelphia federal court. Most likely the law will continue to climb up
the federal court ladder until the Supreme Court does a Judicial Review of
the Law and that will be the end of it.
 
Rage-303.tr 

              Rosencrantz: Fire!
              [Guildenstern jumps up]
              Guildenstern: Where?
              Rosencrantz: It's all right -- I'm demonstrating the misuse
                           of free speech. To prove that it exists.
 
              -From: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead by Tom Stoppard
 

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, etc etc...   =
= Internet : jericho@dimensional.com                 (Mail is welcomed)   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=                  gote land            +27.31.441115                     =
=                  Arrested Development +31.77.3547477                    =
=                  Global Chaos         +61.2.681.2837                    =
= Chemical Persuasion  203.324.0894    Undrgrnd Indust/Inc. 207.490.2158  =
= Damnation            212.861.0580    that stupid place    215.985.0462  =
= Hacker's Haven       303.343.4053    PheedbacK            303.782.0893  =
= E.L.F.        (NUP)  314.272.3426    Misery               318.625.4532  =
= Dungeon Sys. Inc.    410.263.2258    Psykodelik Images    407.834.4576  =
= Paradise Lost        414.476.3181    Black SunShine       513.891.3465  =
= underworld_1995.com  514.683.1894    Digital Fallout      516.378.6640  =
= PSYCHOSiS            613.836.7211    Bad Trip             615.870.8805  =
= Plan 9               716.881.3663    suicidal chaos       718.592.1083  =
= Damaged              801.944.7353    The Death Star Bar   805.872.3151  =
= Purple Hell          806.791.0747    Atrocity Exhibition  905.796.3385  =
= Phoenix Modernz      908.830.8265    The Keg              914.234.9674  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Files through Anon FTP  FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM/users/jericho/FUCK          =
=                         FTP.PRISM.NET/pub/users/mercuri/zines/fuck      =
=                         FTP.WINTERNET.COM/users/craigb/fuck             =
=                         FTP.GIGA.OR.AT/pub/hackers/zines/FUCK           =
=                         ETEXT.ARCHIVE.UMICH.EDU - /pub/Zines/FUCK       =
=                         FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM - /users/rage/zines/fuck    =
= Files through WWW: http://www.dimensional.com/~jericho                  =
=                    http://command.com.inter.net  (DisordeR's User Page) =
=                    http://www.prism.net/zineworld/fuck/                 =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



