=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=   F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                            diphthong
                            ---------

 "This combination of reduced temperatures and reduced light
  levels are causing catastrophic ecological consequences.
  Average light levels would be below the minimum required
  for photosynthesis during the first 30-40 days after the
  explosion and most fresh water would be frozen. The
  TTAPS study concluded: 'the extinction of Homo Sapiens is
  imminent.' This effect is similar to what may have killed 
  the dinosaurs." 


Read this slowly. Concentrate on the words you read and comprehend them 
fully. 

diphthong

Think of your childhood, and where you lived back then. How did your house
look? Go younger still. Slow down. Think of times when you were a baby. 
Images and dialogues erupt in your mind. Now think of your whole life. 
Think of a bad time in your childhood. Maybe the worst day of your life. 
What happened that day? Who was with you? Remember the utter .. pain .. 
you were in. Concentrate on that pain, relish in it. Every time you see

diphthong

you will feel this pain. You will concentrate on it for a split second, and
then feel nothing. You now forget the deepest pain. 


I don't know who I am. I haven't known since November 14, thirty days ago. 
No one knows who they are anymore. 

That Friday, they dropped the bomb in Omaha. 340,000 people were killed. We 
assume they picked Omaha because the U.S. had a huge nuclear missile range
there, outside of town. Plus the U.S. was doing all kinds of experimental 
shit in the areas surrounding Omaha. 

I'm in Oklahoma City where the sun hasn't appeared in a month. Most of the
continental United States is covered in miles and miles of atomic-dust.

It's a nuclear winter. 

All plants are dead, and no plants grow. All freshwater is frozen. We have
halogen lamps and hot water, but for how long? Oxygen has depleted 2% from 
the Earth's atmosphere. We will die, *all of us*, in less than a year. 

All of us. diphthong

I sit and shake all day. I sit in my chair, in this chair, and chain-smoke.
The Internet is a mess. Most traffic has been disabled, due to vandals, 
sabateurs, and frantics. We are all exhaustingly frantic. 

Yet it had been the most pleasureable part of my entire existence. 

I know I will die around a year from now. Nothing needs justifying, no 
consequences. I'm not afraid of death, and most people aren't either. 
Crime is high, but none reported. The U.S. Government was abolished in an
emergency session of the House and Senate. The President signed it ten
days ago. 

Today is December 13. Let it snow, let it snow. We wander around, loot 
stores that have closed, and people with trucks go to warehouses across the
state to feed their block for a week. Everyone quickly, quietly works, 
sustaining life, but enjoying life, for just a little longer. 

The eastern hemisphere is automatically executing all immigrants who arrive 
without massive amounts of gold.

Most of Mexico and Canada have been obliterated, just like us, but the 
surviving areas have become a desolate war zone / wild West.

In one year, the world will exist without living humans in the Americas. 
Isn't that fucked up? 

exist without living. diphthong 

Thousands others commit suicide every day. Most of my family did yesterday,
and my girlfriend, the day before that. 

I'm on my way to Texas, gonna go as south as possible and try to get into 
Mexico if I can. From there, maybe south some more, and Central America 
sounds like paradise: sunshine. I have one year before I starve to death. 

I've been learning Spanish from a defective Mexican soldier I met in Dallas. 
He escaped from The Battle of San Antonio in a car he stole from a woman he
raped and murdered, and was lost in Georgetown or Temple. Then he got some
new clothes and hitchhiked to Dallas, where he's been staying with my 
sister. But he knocked himself off this morning. She's with me, in the 
backseat of her stolen two-ton Ford van, asleep. She killed the previous 
owner with a gun she got from Felix, the (now dead) Mexican soldier.

I have a shotgun and a Mexican military machine gun, with 500 rounds, under 
my sister, under the back seat. She has a handgun and so do I. We have 
boxes of ammo. We have two 20 gallon barrels of water in the back, and some 
food; enough for a few months. 

I've had sex with my sister, in the van mostly. 

We knew it wouldn't matter, and we both wanted to fuck, so we did. 

enough about sex diphthong

So basically that's it.


**porno*funk**

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, Submissions  =
= Mail: jericho@dimensional.com                       (Mail is welcomed)  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  To receive new issues through mail, mail jericho@dimensional.com with  =
=   "subscribe fuck". If you do not have FTP access and would like back   =
=    issues, send a list of any missing issues and they will be mailed.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= AnonFTP     FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM/users/jericho/FUCK                      =
=             FTP.SEKURITY.ORG/pub/zines/fucked.up.college.kids           =
=             FTP.GIGA.OR.AT/pub/hackers/zines/FUCK                       =
=             FTP.ETEXT.ORG/pub/Zines/FUCK                                =
= WWW         http://www.dimensional.com/~jericho                         =
=             http://www.reps.net/~krypt/fuck.html                        =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=       (c) Copyright. All files copyright by the original author.        =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
