
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                          Religion in Schools
                          -------------------

    Tomorrow all your teachers will be gone, in their place God will be
teaching all your classes. This is what most people think when the subject
'Religion in Schools' is brought up. This is because that is exactly what
a lot of people are trying to make happen. The problem is that everyone who
wants religion in school, only wants THEIR religion in school, they won't
even acknowledge other religions. Right now no religion is allowed to be
practiced in public schools, yet they are allowed to be taught. The only
solution I can think of is by allowing all religions in school, even
allowing them to be practiced.

    Many parents, politicians and even some students are all boosting to
try to get religion back in school. This is a problem because they all
want their religion in their (Christianity, etc), and won't even
acknowledge other religions. There are also many people who do not want
religion in the school any way, as long as it is not forced. This
'religious war' in the schools will continue until religion is back in
schools. Everyone will continue trying to get it there, and all those who
don't want it will always protest against it, unless a medium is
introduced. Since there is little or no way to satisfy those that want
religion back in school, it looks as though we are going to have to accept
it back. "There's been an incredible amount of harassment... The ignorance
is so wide spread," (Roth) This statement says it all. The religious right
has become so arrogant that they can't even be open minded enough to accept
other religions, or the fact that some people just don't want their
religion shoved down their throat. Another point that has to be brought up
is the first amendment. The First Amendment says "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion". This means that the
government cannot make any law saying that everyone has to follow one
particular religion. If the people are saying that they want one particular
religion supported in the schools, then it would be unconstitutional to
allow one religion to be supported in the schools.

    Right now, as it stands, religion is not allowed to be practiced in
school. All religions can be taught in school, but anything like prayer or
ceremonial procedures are not allowed. This is not how it has always been.
In early American history schools were all religion based. Each morning
would begin with a prayer. This worked pretty fine, society on a whole was
pretty decent, and crime was fairly low. Then, in 1962 an Atheist
challenged the state by saying that it was unconstitutional to make prayer
mandatory. After finally making the case to the Supreme Court the court
ruled that it was indeed unconstitutional because it breached the
separation of church and state. "The Supreme Court consistently has ruled
that governmental institutions must remain neutral on matters of religion
so it doesn't appear they are promoting or hindering religious activity."
(Roth) Slowly (since most schools were against the idea) all prayer was
removed from public school. After that society began to gradually decrease,
crime rose and Americans seemed to have turned on their government. Many
people blamed this downfall on the fact that religion was taken out of
school, "People who would pray are not the ones who would pull their guns
out in the corridors," (Spitzer) and some say it is only coincidental.
Either way this is just another reason some people want religion back in
school, hoping it will bring back that 'order' to society, in turn, but it
will only destroy it. Until recently no one has tried to challenge the
supreme court ruling. Recently though, many people all over have been
challenging it. Like at Hillsdale Middle School teacher, Winifred Stiles
Bell, who invites students into her classroom to pray before school. When
people challenge it like this they are only creating more problems, and
breaking the law in the proccess. So, a solution must be obtained.

    After hearing all this, your probably wondering what a good solution
would be. A solution that works now, might not work in the future, and that
is the bad part about solutions. Once someone comes up with a good
solution, it seems to work, but as the world changes, and ideas flow, the
old solutions just don't seem to work anymore. In 1962 taking prayer out of
school seemed like a pretty good idea at the time, which it was. They knew
it would cause problems at first because the majority of the country was
Christian and prayer had just always been in school. Now, 33 years later,
the old solution just doesn't seem to be working any longer, so a new
solution is in effect. My solution to this whole problem might seem like an
easy one, maybe a close minded one, but it would have to take open minded
people to try and make it work, something this world seems to be low on.
First off, I would like to take a look at science, since that is mostly
where the church and school have their arguments. The Big Bang Theory
states that the Universe was created by a large explosion that sent
particles flying in every direction, which all later formed galaxies,
stars, planets and even life. But, in the Bible it says that the universe
was created by God, and that he created everything, the galaxies, stars,
planets and even life. You cannot have two completely different points of
view taught in the same place unless they were taught with the same
respect. The Big Bang is not known to be fact, which is why it is call the
Big Bang THEORY, and Creationism is not know to be fact, for the sole
reason that no one has proof of it (unless you are willing to accept the
fact that you exist as proof). So you would have to take all of the
theories out of the science class, and made a new class that deals with the
theories of science, and how they relate to science and most importantly
make it so it is not required. Some would say though, that if you took all
the theories out of science, you wouldn't have much left. This is why I
would think it best to make science a completely non-required class that
students would choose to learn if they wanted, of course, most colleges
would require you take science to get accepted so many students would
remain taking the courses. After this is completed, allow religion classes
to be taught. They could practice their religion all they wanted, as in
science when you perform laboratory experiments, as long as the practicing
doesn't harm anyone (Sorry to all you Satanists who wanted to sacrifice
Freshmen during fourth hour). You can also practice outside of the class. A
Buddhist can meditate right next to a Christian who is praying. Now, you
are probably saying "That will never work, there is too much disliking, no
religions could be respected at one place." And here is my response to
that. If you cannot respect other religions, and their beliefs, then you
are a close minded asshole who should be imeditatly killed because it is
people like YOU who make this world a bad place to live in. So, if you have
a Christian praying, and a Buddhist who wants to meditate next to him, yet 
this will disrupt the Christian from praying, then the Buddhist has to find 
some other place to do his thing, now it works the other way to. A school 
cannot teach only one religion and refuse all others. If, however, the school 
is full of nothing but one religious type (which means people should say what
religion they are (if they want) when filling out an application) then they
can do what ever they like, until someone of another religion type begins
attending that school. For example, a school of all Christians can have
prayer over the announcements before school, during school and after
school, but the moment someone of a different religion type starts
attending, the school cannot hold prayer over the intercom any longer
because no religion can be forced upon students and teachers. However if
someone is a different religion type and doesn't want to say what religion
they are because they like their privacy, don't start complaining when you
hear a prayer over the announcements, it is your own damn fault. Give up
your privacy, or give up your freedom, you decide.

Note: When I say "School" I mean PUBLIC Schools only, Private schools can
      do whatever the fuck they want. I thought it was neat how i
      re-formatted this (This was a Documented Essay for school) to "Heresy"
      by Nine Inch Nails.

Rage-303


=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, etc etc...   =
= Internet : jericho@netcom.com                      (Mail is welcomed)   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Chemical Persuasion  203.324.0894    Celestial Woodlands 214.252.6455   =   
= Ionic Destruction    215.722.0570    Hacker's Haven      303.343.4053   = 
= E.L.F.        (NUP)  314.272.3426    Misery              318.625.4532   =
= Dungeon Sys. Inc.    410.263.2258    Psykodelik Images   407.834.4576   =
= Paradise Lost        414.476.3181           (Your Board Here!@#$!)      =
= Digital Fallout      516.378.6640    Bad Trip            615-870-8805   =
= Plan 9               716.881.3663    Deadly Intoxication 801.553.8644   =
= Purple Hell          806.791.0747    Logikal Nonsence    XXX.XXX.XXXX   = 
= PuRe EViL  (NUP)     905.XXX.XXXX    The Keg             914.234.9674   =                                    =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Files through Anonymous FTP: FTP.NETCOM.COM - cd /pub/il/illusion/fuck  =
=                              FTP.FC.NET - cd /pub/deadkat/misc/fuck     =
=                              FTP.WINTERNET.COM - cd /users/craigb/fuck  =
=               http://www.ora.com:8080/johnl/e-zine-list/zines/fuck.html =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



