=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=   F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                           Ups and Downs
                           -------------

I am sitting here in my hotel room in Washington, D.C. at 2:00 in the
morning not knowing what the fuck to do. While it's a Saturday night, this
town is not safe for white boys like me, so I am staying in watching some
horrible movie on HBO. Ninety-nine fucking channels and not shit on. At
least I have my beer to keep me company.

In just a few days I will celebrate my one year anniversary of not having
a real job. I have made a living as a professional speaker talking all
over the country about computer security. While it may seem like a cool
job, it has had its ups and downs.

The ups? Well, for starters, not having to get up and go to work every
fucking business day in my shirt and tie and watch the Dilbert Principle
play itself out over and over again. I did that once; never again.

There are also the benefits of doing whatever you want whenever you want,
of not having a set bed time when you need to go to sleep, and not having
to deal with people if you don't want to.

Then there are the benefits. My work with NASA allowed me to take a
private, one man tour of the space shuttle launch pad. I got the rare
chance to crawl all over it and check it out. Definitely cool. But not as
cool as being invited to the launch of the space shuttle. Last Thursday I
got to watch Discovery light up its 300,000 pounds of fuel and rocket into
space at 17,000 miles per hour. Forget television, you have to see it in
person to really appreciate it.

The best part is being able to see the country and meet your Internet
friends in person on someone else's tab. If not for this job, I would
never have seen as much of the country as I have in the last year.

It's a lot of fun being in this line of work. But it also has its downs.
First are the financial ones. In this line of work, it is either feast or
famine. I have just spent the last month in famine, and am now entering a
feast.

Then there is the constant hassle with the airlines, of which I have well
documented with my prior writings. Of course, let's not forget the hassle
with hotels, shuttles and everything else a traveler must have to deal
with. They don't make for a pleasant stay while one is on the road in a
strange city.

The biggest drawback is being away from home, away from your girlfriend,
racking up the phone bill as you try to stay as close to her as possible
when you can't be next to her in person. My current stay away from home is
for eighteen days, and it has become too much after only five days. I have
cut into my feast a bit and she's about to join me for the remainder of my
trip.

I don't know what to think about this line of work. It's fun, but some
stability would be nice. Maybe it's time to deal with "the suits" and get
some stability. At least if the money is right.

se7en
8/9/97

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, Submissions  =
= Mail: jericho@dimensional.com                       (Mail is welcomed)  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  To receive new issues through mail, mail jericho@dimensional.com with  =
=   "subscribe fuck". If you do not have FTP access and would like back   =
=    issues, send a list of any missing issues and they will be mailed.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= AnonFTP     FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM/users/jericho/FUCK                      =
=             FTP.SEKURITY.ORG/pub/zines/fucked.up.college.kids           =
=             FTP.GIGA.OR.AT/pub/hackers/zines/FUCK                       =
=             FTP.ETEXT.ORG/pub/Zines/FUCK                                =
= WWW         http://www.dimensional.com/~jericho                         =
=             http://www.reps.net/~krypt/fuck.html                        =
=             http://www.interlog.com/~lisa/f.u.c.k.                      =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=       (c) Copyright. All files copyright by the original author.        =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
