=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=   F.U.C.K. - Fucked Up College Kids - Born Jan. 24th, 1993 - F.U.C.K.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                                Losers
                                ------

In my sociology class, the teacher briefly said, "Do not bitch until you do
something to change the situation."

True, only losers keep complaining about the problems they have. They
complain that the government is a mess, the company is treating them like
shit, the educational system is stupid, etc. but all of them say "oh but we
can't change the society because it's already so fucked up." Losers believe
all the politicians only want the power and money without even reading
about them. Of course, they don't vote. They don't vote, yet they still
bitch about the result; they are too ignorant to know they are the ones who
let the Republicans win in their area. Losers believe someone will clean
the trash they threw out of the car window without spending their tax
money. Losers are the ones who do things because "everyone else does."

The society is made of PEOPLE, and if it doesn't change, it's OUR problem.
We are more or less lazy asses that don't even bother to try. We tend to
believe what "everyone else" says, without being sure who that "everyone"
is.  We act as though we are cool "individuals" with unique mind, but we
are in fact letting a few people control our whole life. The freedom we
believe in is bullshit because we use it as an excuse to be selfish, lazy
and ignorant to keep ourselves from confronting the "real" problems we
have. And guess what, we still bitch on daily basis, after repeating "we
cannot change anything," without giving up on everything and becoming an
obedient slave. (Hello? Are you waiting for the God or some kind of hero to
change the situation?)

I have no way of liking or wanting to hang out with my sociology teacher
because she is a very religious Catholic who believes in "morality" that I
disagree at some point, yet I do respect her for not being a "loser". Her
life is based on what she believes in, and if someone does not agree with
her, she questions until she completely understands why (that is why we
have arguments sometimes). I've seen her yelling at the manager of the
college bookstore when they raised the price of our textbook without
notice. She is a person who would actually call up the Mayor and tell him
"I don't like what you are doing," even if it doesn't change the situation. 

In One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, McMurphy said, "Well, at least I
tried." Can we say the same thing before we start bitching?


Psycho "The Loser"
June 7, 1997

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= Questions, Comments, Bitches, Ideas, Rants, Death Threats, Submissions  =
= Mail: jericho@dimensional.com                       (Mail is welcomed)  =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=  To receive new issues through mail, mail jericho@dimensional.com with  =
=   "subscribe fuck". If you do not have FTP access and would like back   =
=    issues, send a list of any missing issues and they will be mailed.   =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
= AnonFTP     FTP.DIMENSIONAL.COM/users/jericho/FUCK                      =
=             FTP.SEKURITY.ORG/pub/zines/fucked.up.college.kids           =
=             FTP.GIGA.OR.AT/pub/hackers/zines/FUCK                       =
=             FTP.ETEXT.ORG/pub/Zines/FUCK                                =
= WWW         http://www.dimensional.com/~jericho                         =
=             http://www.reps.net/~krypt/fuck.html                        =
=             http://www.interlog.com/~lisa/f.u.c.k                       =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
=       (c) Copyright. All files copyright by the original author.        =
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
